MEETING OF THE HAIR IN
THE MILITARY POLICE OVERSIGHT
COMMISSION FROM OR LEADING
EVERYONE WHAT I DO.
THANK YOU, MA'AM.
ALL RIGHT.
I'M GOING TO ASK MR. CUMMINS TO
DO THE ROLL CALL PLEASE, MA'AM.
>> CHAIR CARTER, I AM HERE VICE
CHAIR PRESENT COMMISSIONER
BILLUPS PRESENT COMMISSIONER
PIPKINS PRESENTLY COMMISSIONER
HAYNES PRESENT COMMISSIONER,
PRESENT COMMISSIONER MAINLY
PRESENT COMMISSIONER COOPER
COMMISSIONER GRAEME
COMMISSIONER MILGROM COUNCILMAN
RETIRED COUNCIL MEMBER HARRISON
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> WELL GOOD EVENING EVERYBODY.
WOULD YOU PLEASE LOOK AT THE
AGENDA AND SEE IF WE CAN GET A
MOTION TO APPROVE THE AGENDA
AND THEN A MOTION TO APPROVE
THE MINUTES FROM OUR LAST
MEETING ON FEBRUARY 25TH.
COMMISSIONER COMMISSIONER
HAYNES MOVES FAST I'M SORRY
APPROVAL OF THE APPROVAL OF THE
AGENDA.
>> THANK YOU.
IS THERE A SEX COMMISSIONER?
ANY DISCUSSION ALL IN FAVOR OR
OPPOSE THE AGENDA IS APPROVED
NOW CAN I HAVE A MOTION PLEASE
FOR APPROVAL THE MINUTES FROM
FEBRUARY 25TH ANYBODY THE
MOTION TO APPROVE THE MINUTES
FROM OUR FEBRUARY MEETING.
>> THANK YOU.
IS THERE A SECOND BILL?
SECOND.
THANK YOU.
ANY DISCUSSION ALL IN FAVOR ANY
OPPOSE.
>> THANK YOU.
THE MINUTES ARE APPROVED FROM
OUR FEBRUARY TWENTY FIFTH
MEETING.
THIS IS THE POINT WHERE WE HAVE
PUBLIC COMMENT.
IS THERE ANYONE PRESENT WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK TO THE
COMMISSION ON ANY RELEVANT
MATTERS?
>> NO.
DO WE HAVE ANYONE ON THE PHONE?
WE HAVE ONLINE AT THIS TIME.
THANK YOU.
ALL RIGHT.
WE'RE GOING TO MOVE ON TO A
REPORT FROM THE CHAIR OF I WANT
TO WELCOME EVERYBODY AGAIN AND
HOPE YOU HAD A GOOD MONTH SINCE
WE MET LAST AGAIN WELCOME THE
CHIEF IN HIS STAFF AND AGAIN WE
HAVE AN OFFICER KEEPING A SAFE.
WE APPRECIATE IT.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
KABULOV THINGS FIRST OF ALL AND
THIS IS IN NO PARTICULAR ORDER
COMMISSIONER PIPKIN INFORMED ME
OF THIS.
YOU WE SO I LOOKED IT UP OVER
THE LAST FEW WEEKS.
>> THERE'S AN ISSUE THAT IT
HASN'T BECOME A BIG ISSUE FOR
US AT LEAST NOT YET.
BUT IT HAS TO DO WITH WHETHER
OR NOT COMPLAINTS ARE PUBLIC
RECORDS AND CAN BE RELEASED.
AND SO THERE IS A CASE THAT WAS
FILED BY THE ACLU OF MICHIGAN
AGAINST THE CITY OF EAST
LANSING AND I HAVE A CALL IN TO
TRY AND GET TALK TO ONE OF THE
ONE OF THE LAWYERS.
>> I HAVEN'T TALKED TO THEM YET
BUT I DID GET SORT OF A A
LITTLE BIT OF WHAT THE
COMPLAINT WAS ABOUT AND I'M
JUST GOING TO READ THIS BECAUSE
IT'S IT'S INTERESTING.
SO THIS GENTLEMAN WAS A
MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY
STUDENT WHO FELT HE HAD BEEN
MISTREATED BY THE EAST LANSING
POLICE OFFICERS WHO ARRESTED
HIM AT A PARTY AFTER A NOISE
COMPLAINT SUSPECTING THAT HIS
EXPERIENCE WAS NOT UNIQUE, HE
SUBMITTED A PUBLIC RECORDS
REQUEST FOR OTHER CITIZENS
COMPLAINTS THAT HAD BEEN FILED
AGAINST THE OFFICERS WHO WERE
INVOLVED IN HIS ARREST.
THE EAST LANSING POLICE
DEPARTMENT REFUSED TO DISCLOSE
A COMPLAINT ARGUING THAT THEY
WERE PERSONNEL RECORDS EXEMPT
FROM DISCLOSURE UNDER
MICHIGAN'S FREEDOM
OF INFORMATION.
>> SO THE ACLU FILED THE
LAWSUIT.
IT WAS FILED BACK IN MARCH
OF 2016.
THEY WERE ARGUING THAT
TRANSPARENCY IN POLICE
MISCONDUCT COMPLAINTS IS BOTH
REQUIRED BY LAW AND AN
IMPORTANT COMPONENT OF A STRONG
POLICE COMMUNITY RELATIONS.
>> SO WHAT HAPPENED?
THEY SETTLED THE LAWSUIT WHICH
MEANS THERE'S NO FINDING BY A
COURT THAT SAYS ONE WAY OR THE
OTHER.
>> BUT IT'S IT SEEMS TO ME, YOU
KNOW, IF THE ISSUE COMES UP
YOU'VE GOT AT LEAST IN ARGUMENT
RAISED BY THE ACLU WHICH AT
LEAST CONVINCED THE DEPARTMENT
TO IN THIS CASE GIVE OUT GIVE
THE COMPLAINT.
>> SO IT'S YOU KNOW, IT'S AN
ONGOING ISSUE AS TO WHETHER
COMPLAINTS ARE PUBLIC RECORDS
OR IF THEY ARE SHIELDED BY
PERSONNEL.
>> SO WE'LL KEEP AN EYE ON THAT
AND I'D BE INTERESTED TO KNOW,
YOU KNOW, WHAT THE LAWYERS
THOUGHT ABOUT THEIR CHANCES
OF ACTUALLY PREVAILING IF IF
THE MATTER HAD GONE TO COURT.
>> BUT THAT'S SOMETHING NEW FOR
US.
SECONDLY, WE RECEIVED
INFORMATION FROM CHIEF ANDERSON
AND I THANK YOU, CHIEF.
YOU KNOW, ONE OF OUR CONCERNS
WITH OUR RECOMMENDATIONS WAS
THAT THE DEPARTMENT DEVELOP A
GOOD RELATIONSHIP WITH THE
PUBLIC SCHOOLS AND SO WE GOT A
REPORT AND I'M JUST THIS IS
FROM THE SUBJECT IS AN IOWA
PUBLIC SCHOOL SPRING SPORTS
STARTUP.
THIS IS FROM LIEUTENANT WITH
THE DEPARTMENT.
HE SAYS HE RECEIVED POSITIVE
FEEDBACK FROM THE SCHOOLS AND
THE COMMUNITY REFERENCE
OFFICERS STOPPING BY AND OUR
PUBLIC SCHOOL EVENTS SO THEY'RE
BEING INVITED TO STOP BY EVENTS
WHILE THEY'RE ON DUTY AND
APPARENTLY ARE BEING WELL
RECEIVED.
SO THAT'S GREAT.
THAT IS GREAT.
THANK YOU FOR THAT, CHIEF.
NOW THE THIRD THING AND AGAIN
COMMISSIONER PIPKIN BROUGHT
THIS UP TO ME.
WE TALKED ABOUT OUR NEW
COMPLAINT FORM THE OUR FORM
THAT WE FILL OUT AND THE LAST
THING ON THE FORM IS OUR
RECOMMENDATION IF WE MAKE A
RECOMMENDATION.
>> SO I THOUGHT ABOUT IT WHEN
WE MAKE A RECOMMENDATION DO WE
WANT TO ADD SOMETHING ON IT FOR
AND ASK THE DEPARTMENT WHAT DO
YOU THINK OF OUR RECOMMENDATION
?
WE RECOMMEND THAT YOU DO X, Y
AND Z AND THAT'S THE LAST WE
HEAR ABOUT IT A LOT OF TIMES.
SO I DON'T KNOW WHAT WHAT DO
YOU ALL THINK IF THAT'S
SOMETHING THAT WE CAN AT LEAST
ASK THE DEPARTMENT TO RESPOND
TO OUR RECOMMENDATIONS TELL US
TO SO JUMP IN THE LAKE OR SO?
>> YES, THAT'S A GOOD IDEA OR
WHATEVER THAT MY THOUGHT BEHIND
IT WAS IN REFERENCE TO ONLY
EVERY LAST COUPLE OF YEARS GO
ON TO NACOLE AND THE DIFFERENT
STATES AND CITIES THAT HAVE THE
THE COMMISSION BOARDS AND
THINGS LIKE THAT IN THE
INTERACTIONS THAT THEY HAVE
WITH THE DEPARTMENT BUT BEING
ABLE TO KNOW THAT WHEN WE MAKE
A RECOMMENDATION WHETHER OR NOT
THAT IS BEING IF OF COURSE
THAT'S TAKEN INTO CONSIDERATION
BUT WHETHER OR NOT WHAT WE'RE
RECOMMENDING IS DIFFERENT FROM
THAT OF WHAT THE OFFICERS
RECOMMENDED FOR THAT OFFICER IS
TAKEN INTO ACCOUNT AND WHETHER
OR NOT THEY AGREE WITH THIS OR
WE'RE AGREEING WITH THEM.
BUT WHEN WE DISAGREE, WHAT IS
THE OUTCOME?
SO WHAT DO YOU THINK DO WE NEED
TO ADD SOMETHING THAT SAYS
SOMETHING ABOUT DEPARTMENT
RESPONSE OR SOMETHING LIKE THAT
IN OUR REPORT?
>> I THINK IT WOULD BE HELPFUL
TO KNOW IF WE'RE GOING IN THE
RIGHT DIRECTION AND IF WE DON'T
,YOU'RE BACK.
BUT THIS SEEMS OK OR THIS IS
OUT ORDER, THEN WE DON'T KNOW
IF WE'RE GOING IN THE RIGHT
DIRECTION OR NOT.
OK, I THINK ONE OF THE ISSUES
WE HAVE IS BASICALLY TO WHEN WE
WRITE THE REPORT THAT GOES INTO
THE SHEER RESOURCES.
RIGHT.
AND I BELIEVE THAT APD HAS
ACCESS TO THE SHEER RESOURCES
AND AND THEY CAN LOOK AT OUR
REPORTS WHETHER OR NOT THERE
ARE RECOMMENDATIONS WITH THAT
AND THEY CAN LOOK AT THEM AND
MIGHT BE A BIT HELPFUL IF WE
HEAR BACK FROM YES, WE WE SAW
THOSE THINGS AND I BELIEVE THAT
ONE OF THE ISSUES THAT WE HAVE
AND WE KEEP COMING BACK AND
FORTH TO IS THE ISSUE OF MANY
COMPLAINTS WE RECEIVED RECENTLY
ABOUT POLICE OFFICERS PARKING
THEIR CARS IN METERED AREAS AND
AND FROM WHAT WE GET FROM
LITERALLY AND SERGEANT KING IS
THEY ARE UPDATING THEIR
POLICIES AND THEY
WOULD WHEN
THEY WHEN THE POLICIES BECOME
FINALIZED, THEY WILL MAKE US
AWARE OF THOSE.
SO SO THAT'S A STEP IN THE
RIGHT DIRECTION.
>> SO EVEN THAT IN A WRITTEN
FORM, YOU KNOW, THANK YOU VERY
RECOMMENDATION OR WHATEVER AND
WE'RE LOOKING INTO A NEW POLICY
POLICY WHEN WE HAD OUR
TRANSPARENCY MEETING AND WE
RECOMMENDED AFTER WATCHING ONE
OF THE VIDEOS WE RECOMMENDED
THAT THIS BE USED AS A PART
OF TRAINING AND SO AND THEY AND
THE RESPONSE WAS THAT'S A GOOD
IDEA.
YOU KNOW, I MEAN THESE ARE
THINGS THAT MAYBE WE JUST WANT
TO ASK FOR A RESPONSE BACK FROM
THE POLICE DEPARTMENT AND I'M
NOT ASKING THE CHIEF AT THIS
TIME TO RESPOND AT ALL UNLESS
OF COURSE YOU WANT TO.
BUT SO WE HAD LOOKED AT HOW ARE
GOING TO LOOK AT THE FORUM
AGAIN TODAY.
>> NO, WE PASSED ALREADY SO WE
PROBABLY NEED DO YOU WANT TO
WAIT TILL YOU LOOKING AT THE
FORM AGAIN NEXT MEETING OR DO
YOU WANT TO JUST MOVE TO ADD A
LINE AT THE END DEPARTMENT
RESPONSE OR OR SOMETHING
OF THAT NATURE?
WHAT IS YOUR PLEASURE?
I DON'T REMEMBER WHAT THE FORM
IS LIKE SO I NEED TO SEE IT
AGAIN.
YEAH OK WELL WHY DON'T WE PUT
IT ON THE AGENDA AGAIN FOR NEXT
MONTH'S MEETING.
WE'LL TAKE A LOOK AT IT WITH
THE IDEA OF OF ADDING SOMETHING
REQUESTING A RESPONSE FROM THE
DEPARTMENT.
>> OK, VERY GOOD THANK YOU.
AND I JUST REALLY APPRECIATE
WHEN YOU ALL SEE SOMETHING OR
HAVE AN IDEAS COMMISSIONER
PIPKIN DID LAST TIME PLEASE
PASS IT ON AND I'LL LOOK INTO
IT AND BRING IT UP AND WE'LL DO
THE BEST WE CAN WITH IT.
A COUPLE MORE THINGS YOU
PROBABLY HAVE IN FRONT OF YOU.
WE HAVE REPRINTED THE DRIVING
EQUALITY ORDINANCE CARDS AND SO
IF ANYBODY GOES OUT AND YOU ARE
GOING TO BE IN A PUBLIC SPACE,
WE HAVE THEM YOU KNOW, JUST LET
ME COME IN NOW AND SHE CAN GET
YOU A PILE OF THESE TO PASS OUT
.
LET ME ASK COMMISSIONER HAYNES
DID PEOPLE NOT IT WASN'T THIS
ONE WHERE PEOPLE INTERESTED IN
THE OK DO YOU ACTUALLY HAD SOME
OF THE PRINTED FORMS ABOUT A
PARK AT A AT A RECENT PUBLIC
EVENT?
>> YES.
THE SOCIAL ACTION COMMITTEE
OF DELTA SIGMA THETA HAD A OF A
FORUM I THINK IT WAS IN
FEBRUARY BEFORE OUR LAST
MEETING AFTER OUR LAST MEETING.
BUT ANYWAY WE HAD A LOT
OF LITERATURE THAT WE PASSED
OUT AND THAT WAS ONE OF THE
THINGS THAT THAT WAS PASSED
OUT.
AND I HAVE TO SAY ON THAT FORUM
IT WAS EXCELLENT.
GOOD WE HAD A REPRESENTATIVE
FROM THE ANN ARBOR POLICE
DEPARTMENT, A REPRESENTATIVE
FROM SALEEN, A REPRESENTATIVE
FROM YPSILANTI I BELIEVE AND
THERE WAS A Q&A SESSION
AFTERWARDS AND IT WAS JUST IT
WAS OUTSTANDING.
IT WAS VERY GOOD, VERY, VERY
WELL RECEIVED AND THERE MUST
HAVE BEEN SOME 60 TO 70 PEOPLE
IN ATTENDANCE.
WELL, SO IT WAS GREAT AND YES,
ALL OF THE LITERATURE THAT WE
HAD PROVIDED WAS TAKEN.
PITTSVILLE ALSO WAS REPRESENTED
YOU KNOW, I ATTENDED A PUBLIC
MEETING FORUM A WEEK OR SO AGO
WITH THE THE SHERIFF WAS THE IT
WAS TIME TO ASK QUESTIONS
OF THE SHERIFF AND I WAS I SAID
TO THEM I WAS KICKING MYSELF
AND I INTRODUCED MYSELF AND I
SAID YOU SAID WHERE I WAS FROM
AND WHAT WE WERE DOING BUT I
DIDN'T HAVE ANYTHING TO PASS UP
AND SO I NEXT TIME AND IF YOU
THINK ABOUT IT, IF YOU'RE GOING
ANYWHERE AND YOU WANT TO GIVE
US A PLUG AND THEY HAVE
SOMETHING TO HAND THAT'S A GOOD
THING I MIGHT SAY AND ALSO THAT
IN MAY WE WILL ALSO DO A SECOND
ONE AND CHIEF ANDERSON WILL BE
THERE.
THE SHERIFF WILL BE THERE AND I
CAN'T REMEMBER WHO THE THIRD
PERSON IS GOING TO BE THERE BUT
WE'RE GOING TO BE TALKING ABOUT
THE TRAFFIC.
SO AMONG OTHER THINGS BUT
THAT'S ONE OF THE TOPICS AND
WE'RE GOING TO I'M GOING TO
BRING THAT UP AGAIN WHEN WE GET
TO TALKING ABOUT OUR PROPOSED
FORUM IN MAY.
>> DO YOU HAVE A DATE FOR THAT?
I DON'T HAVE MY PHONE WITH ME
AND I BELIEVE OUR DATE IS THE
3RD THIRTEENTH OF MAY.
IT'S ON A THURSDAY EVENING
.
YES, IT'S ON THE THIRTEENTH
WHICH IS A TUESDAY.
OK, THANK YOU.
WE'RE GOING TO CIRCLE BACK TO
THAT THE ANNUAL REPORT IS DONE
AND IT IS GOING TO THE PRINTER
TO TOMORROW AND THE REASON IT
HASN'T GONE YET WELL WE HAD IT
WE HAD ONE HICCUP.
WE PUT A WE CALL THE THING ON
THE BACK LINK TO ARE I WAS
THINKING OF C QR CODE .
>> OH IT WAS A CODE IT DIDN'T
WORK OR THE LINK THAT OK SO IT
WAS IT WAS PRINTED UP AND IT
DIDN'T WORK.
SO WE ASKED MISS MORTON MORTON
WHO'S JUST DONE A WONDERFUL JOB
FOR US TO REDO THAT AND THAT
WAS REDONE AND THEN SHE WAS
WAITING ME WHICH I DIDN'T KNOW
TO SAY OK PRINT WHICH I HAD
ALREADY SAID BEFORE OK PRINT
BUT WE GOT EVERYTHING WORKED
OUT SO BUT SINCE IT HASN'T GONE
YET LAST TIME LAST YEAR WE
VOTED ON HOW MANY COPIES AND I
BELIEVE THAT WE HAD BOUGHT ONE
HUNDRED COPIES PRINTED UP.
HAS EVERYBODY SEEN LAST YEAR'S
ANNUAL REPORT SO I WOULD
RECOMMEND I GUESS ANOTHER
HUNDRED.
WE DON'T HAVE A LOT LEFT OVER.
I HAVE A FEW IN MY OFFICE.
I DON'T KNOW HOW MANY WE STILL
HAVE UP IN THE OFFICE HERE.
MR. CUMMINS, DO WE HAVE A
BUNCH?
YEAH, JUST A FEW AND I TOOK
THEM TO COUNCIL MEETING AND
PASSED THEM OUT AND WHAT DO YOU
THINK ABOUT ONE HUNDRED BUT NO
GOOD NO.
>> YES.
I DON'T THINK WE NEED A MOTION
DO YOU?
OK, I'LL CALL TOMORROW AND
WE'LL GET WE'LL GET THOSE OFF
TO THE PRINTER.
THE LAST THING IT HAS BEEN
SUGGESTED THAT WE PURCHASE NEW
FURNITURE FOR OUR OFFICE.
I AM RELUCTANT TO SPEND OUR
MONEY FOR FURNITURE.
I KNOW WE'RE YOU KNOW WE'RE
GIVEN A BUDGET TO TO TO DO OUR
BUSINESS AND DO OUR MISSION.
>> I DON'T WANT IT TO COME BACK
ON ME AND SAY OH, YOU'RE
DECORATING WITH YOUR MONEY.
SO IT BOTHERS ME JUST A BIT.
SO I SAID WHAT I'D LIKE TO DO
YOU ALL GO WOW, HOW MANY OF YOU
HAVE BEEN TO THE OFFICE
UPSTAIRS?
>> ONE TO EVERYBODY GO UP TO
THE OFFICE BETWEEN NOW AND THE
NEXT MEETING.
OK, THIS IS THE OFFICE OF THE
PRODUCER.
REMEMBER THE OFFICE YOU CAME TO
FOR YOU?
OH SO LET'S LET'S COLLECTIVELY
LOOK AT IT AND AND MAKE THAT
DECISION.
I'M NOT COMFORTABLE MAKING IT
MYSELF.
THAT'S THE CASE.
>> WELL, YOU KNOW IT'S A IT'S
AN ISSUE AND LET'S LET'S JUST
TAKE A LOOK AT THE COMMENTS.
SO I REQUESTED TO OUR
DEPARTMENT OFFICE FOR OFFICE
AND THEN THERE IS NOT WELL
SUITED THERE.
I DON'T KNOW MOST OF THE
COMMISSIONERS KNOW THE WAY
BEFORE BEING MOVED I WAS ON THE
SIXTH OF SECOND FLOOR WHICH WAS
DOWN HERE AND THAT OFFICE HAD
MORE SPACE AND COULD HAVE
MEETINGS AND THINGS LIKE THAT.
WELL DUE TO SECURITY REASONS I
TO THE SIXTH FLOOR NOW THAT I'M
ON THE SIXTH FLOOR OFFICE
SAYING THAT THE PREVIOUS ONE
AND THE FURNITURE IN THERE
THEREFORE BEEN SO MY REQUEST
WAS THAT MADE MORE SPACE FOR
THOSE WHO DO COME IN FIRST AND
NOT ONLY OF THIS COMMISSION BUT
OF THE OTHER COMMISSIONS THAT I
SERVE IT WOULD BE BEST TO
REMOVE THE OLD OR REPLACE IT
WITH A NEW DESK AND CHAIR
SOMETHING THAT CAN CREATE THIS
BASIC NEEDS SO THAT WHEN IT
DOES COME IN WE CAN MOVE THE
TABLE AND CHAIR FROM THE SECOND
DOWN HERE THAT WAS IN MY OFFICE
BACK UPSTAIRS SO THAT WHEN YOU
DO COME IN, MUHAMMET, YOU WON'T
BE SITTING NEXT TO ME IN THE
CORNER OF OUR MEETING.
YOU WON'T BE SO FAR AWAY WHEN
WE'RE DOING STUFF SO THAT WAS
THE PLAN.
NOW MY SUPERVISOR SAID GO AHEAD
AND APPROVE.
I ALSO WAS TOLD TO INFORM YOU
ALL ABOUT THIS TO SEE WHERE YOU
ALL GET WELL LOOK AT THIS AND
THIS WAS SHARED WITH THE OTHER
COMMISSION CHAIRMAN.
WELL, THANKS YOU NO PROBLEM
WITH THE CHAIR.
SO I SAID I SHARED COST.
YEAH, WELL HOLD ON ONE SECOND.
I DID SPEAK TO THE OTHER
COMMISSION CHAIRS THE THE CHAIR
OF THE COMMISSION ON
DISABILITIES BASICALLY SAID
THEY DON'T USE THE OFFICE MUCH
AND THEY DON'T HAVE A BUDGET
ANYWAY AND SO HE DIDN'T MUCH
CARE AND THE CHAIR OF HUMAN
CHAIR OF HUMAN RIGHTS
COMMISSION SORT OF SAID WELL WE
NEVER USE IT.
WE NEVER
USE THE OFFICE.
>> YOU KNOW THEY DON'T THEY
DON'T THEY DON'T CARE AND THEY
DON'T HAVE A BUDGET.
SO I GUESS I SHOULD BE MORE
FRANK WITH THE OFFICE IS BEING
USED FOR MY DAILY ACTIVITIES
OF MANAGING ALL VACANCIES.
SO FOR THEM TO SAY THAT THEY
DON'T USE THE OFFICE NO
QUESTION DO YOU DON'T LIKE IT
BUT YOU ALL HAVE PUBLIC
VISITORS WHO DO COME IN.
YOU GUYS YOU HAVE GUESTS TO
COME AND SOMETIMES YOU ALL DO
NECESSARILY NEED TO COME IN THE
BUILDING ON WHAT INFORMATION OR
DOCUMENTS NEED TO BE SHARED.
THE COMMISSIONERS ON THE OTHER
COMMISSIONS DO COME IN NOT AS
FREQUENT OR AS BUT WE RECENTLY
JUST HAD LARRY KEILLER FROM THE
QATAR COMMISSION COME IN TO
VISIT AND HE IS A LEGALLY BLIND
MAN.
SO THAT WAS KIND OF CHALLENGING
GETTING SOME THINGS DONE AND
YOU CAN'T SEE MY SCREEN.
>> I GOT COMMISSIONER AND YOU
HAD A QUESTION.
BUT AGAIN, IF YOU GUYS ARE NOT
COMFORTABLE WITH THIS, PLEASE
DO NOT FEEL OBLIGATED IN ANY
WAY, SHAPE OR FORM TO DECIDE
YES, WE'RE GOING TO DO IT.
NO, THIS COMMISSION IS NOT
COMFORTABLE WITH PURCHASING THE
FURNITURE OR THE OFFICE THAT IS
OK.
I WOULDN'T SPEAK TO MY
SUPERVISOR TO THE MANAGER
THAT'S ME NOT ME.
GOOD AT THE CITY WANTS TO PAY
FOR THAT.
WE AGREE.
ARE YOU BETTER SUGGESTED?
I THINK I THINK I THINK IF YOU
FEEL THAT YOU ARE NOT
COMFORTABLE IN THE SITUATION
THAT YOU ARE IN, WHETHER THE
CHAIR OR THE DESK, I THINK IT
HAS TO BE COMFORTABLE TO DO
YOUR WORK AND IF YOU FEEL THAT
ALSO YOU HAVE TO HAVE ROOM FOR
GUESTS OR COMMISSIONERS TO COME
OVER THERE, I THINK IT HAS TO
BE DONE.
I REALLY FEEL THAT FIRST OF ALL
IT'S YOUR COMFORT AND IF YOU
FEEL THAT THE CURRENT ONE IS
NOT SUITABLE FOR YOU TO DO YOUR
WORK NOT CAUSING YOU ANY KIND
OF HARM BECAUSE SOMETIMES YOU
MIGHT BE UPSIDE DOWN AND THAT
MIGHT NOT BE COMFORTABLE WHILE
YOU ARE DOING YOUR WORK FROM
FROM THAT POINT OF VIEW I THINK
THE OFFICE HAS TO BE SUITED TO
YOUR NEEDS.
>> I ALSO WANT TO SAY AS WELL
THAT I'M NOT GETTING READY TO
SPEND A WHOLE BUNCH STUFF.
I'VE ACTUALLY ALREADY SENT
COPIES SO IT DOESN'T HURT THAT
I'VE BEEN THERE STAPLES AND IN
TOTAL THE PRICE FOR THE CHAIR
AND THE DESK WOULD BE SEVEN
HUNDRED AND THIRTY SEVEN
DOLLARS AND FORTY EIGHT CENTS
WITH PRE DELIVERY BECAUSE FOR
YEAH COMMISSIONER BILLONS A
PERSON'S WORKING SPACE IS
IMPORTANT.
I HAVEN'T BEEN TO THE NEW SPACE
I'VE BEEN TO THE SPACE WHEN IT
WAS ON THE SECOND FLOOR SO I'M
IN SUPPORT OF SPENDING THIS
MONEY TO BUY FURNITURE
APPROPRIATELY FOR USE IN THAT
OFFICE SO ANY OTHER I WOULD I
WOULD SUPPORT I THINK A
PERSON'S WORKING SPACE IS
EXTREMELY IMPORTANT IN ORDER TO
GET THE WORK DONE THAT WE ALL
WANT HER TO DO GOOD I WOULD
SUPPORT IT AS WELL.
OH CAN I HAVE A MOTION?
I MAKE THE MOTION THAT WE
APPROVE THE PURCHASE
OF FURNITURE FOR THE OFFICE
THAT'S USED BY EG PARK AND THE
OTHER COMMISSIONS SO OUR STAFF
CAN YEAH YEAH.
>> SO YOU MENTIONED THE DESK
AND THE CHAIR.
ARE YOU ALSO GETTING MORE
CHAIRS FOR WHEN PEOPLE COME IN
TO VISIT.
THAT'S SO THAT'S THE BEST USE
OF YOUR CAME DOWN TO THE SECOND
FLOOR BUT WE HAD BROWNNOSER
CIRCLE TABLE IT WASN'T LIKE
LONG BUT IT WAS BIG ENOUGH TO
OR THREE PEOPLE SAID THE PLAN
IS TO BRING THAT TO THAT TABLE
AND ADDITIONAL CHAIRS UP THERE.
OH, TO HAVE A SPOT.
OH YEAH GREAT.
COME IN.
OH YEAH THAT'LL BE GOOD.
GOOD.
AND I APPRECIATE YOUR INPUT.
NOBODY NEEDS TO GO AND TAKE
LOOK WE'RE ALL IN SUPPORT
OF THE NEW YEAR SO I'M GOING TO
I'M GOING TO ANY MORE
DISCUSSION WE WILL GET A SECOND
.
>> YES YES OK.
ALL RIGHT.
THE MOTION HAS BEEN MOVED,
MOVED AND SECONDED THAT WE
EXPAND HOW MUCH WAS IT.
>> THIRTY SEVEN FORTY SEVEN
HUNDRED THIRTY SEVEN DOLLARS
AND FORTY EIGHT CENTS OUT
OF COMMISSION BUDGET FOR A
CHAIR AND DESK FOR OUR OFFICE
ALL IN FAVOR BY ANY OPPOSED.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
AS I SAID I WAS NOT COMFORTABLE
MAKING THAT DECISION.
THANK YOU.
THAT IS ALL THAT THE CHIOS
REPORT ALTHOUGH FOR NEXT TIME I
AM GOING TO LOOK INTO AGAIN
COMMISSIONER PIPKINS BROUGHT
THIS IN THIS EVENING IF YOU
REMEMBER WE HAD A RESOLUTION
THAT WE THOUGHT HAD GONE TO
COUNCIL REGARDING THE TRAFFIC
TRANSPARENCY ORDINANCE TO
REQUIRE THAT WE GET AN UPDATE
ON THE NUMBERS THAT THAT ARE
COMING IN IN TERMS OF ARRESTS
AND WE THOUGHT IT HAD GONE TO
COUNCIL BUT IT WENT TO COUNCIL
AS SORT OF AN ADVISORY THING
AND IT DIDN'T GO TO HAVE THEM
ACTUALLY VOTE.
SO I'LL HAVE A REPORT ON THAT
FOR YOU AT THE NEXT MEETING.
>> ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
WE'RE GOING TO MOVE ON TO OLD
BUSINESS OLD NEW BUSINESS JUST
BEFORE WE JUST WE ALREADY
COVERED THE NEW BUSINESS.
OK, GOOD.
THANK YOU.
I'M GLAD WE'RE KIND OF MOVING
ALONG.
WE I DO HAVE A QUESTION.
YES.
OF HIS NEW BUSINESS IN
REFERENCE TO THE TRAFFIC STOP
THAT WE DISCUSSED.
I FORGET THE GUY WHO DID THE
REPORT THIS HERE.
>> OH GOD, THE KARPIAK, THE
KARPIAK.
HOW OFTEN ARE WE LIKE HOW WE
DECIDED AS FAR AS UPDATES OR
AFTER SO MANY YEARS CERTAINLY
BACK TO PAY TO DO IT?
WE CAN'T HAVE IT DONE AGAIN.
>> I DON'T KNOW IF THAT WAS
EVER DISCUSSED.
YOU KNOW, I'VE BEEN IN CONTACT
A COUPLE OF MONTHS AGO PROBABLY
WITH DR. KARPIAK.
THE ISSUE WAS WHETHER THE DATA
WAS THERE FOR HIM TO BECAUSE WE
WERE LOOKING AT WHAT DID DID
THE THE TRANSPARENT ENOUGH DID
THE ORDINANCE MAKE A DIFFERENCE
IN TERMS OF THE NUMBER OF STOPS
AND SO FORTH AND SO ON.
SO DR. COPY, YOU GOT A MINUTE.
DO YOU WANT TO TALK TO US ABOUT
WHAT'S GOING DON'T WANT TO PUT
YOU ON THE SPOT.
I HAVEN'T DONE ANYTHING RIGHT
AS FAR AS I KNOW THE DATA
SHOULD BE THERE THAT WE USED TO
DO SO WE COLLECTED SO WE COULD
ABSOLUTELY TALK ABOUT WHAT IT
WOULD MEAN TO DO ANOTHER REPORT
ON A VERSION.
>> SO DO YOU USE AND I KNOW WE
TALKED ABOUT THE MANNER IN
WHICH THE DATA WAS BEING
COLLECTED AND I THINK YOUR
OPINION WAS THAT THE WAY IT'S
BEEN COLLECTED NOW YOU CAN WORK
WITH SO SO I COULD DO THE EXACT
SAME THING BASICALLY AS FAR AS
I KNOW, DEPENDING ON HOW MANY
STOPS THERE'S BEEN AND HOW LONG
IT'S BEEN A YEAR NOW SINCE THE
ORDINANCE OR OVER A YEAR
BECAUSE WE USED THREE YEARS
OF DATA AND THAT'S WHAT ALLOWED
US TO GET THIS SPECIFICITY
ABOUT RACE AND GENDER AT THE
SAME.
SO IT'S BETTER IF YOU HAVE A
LITTLE MORE TIME UNDER THE
TERMS.
I'M NOT SURE IF IT'S POSSIBLE.
IT'S IT'S JUST A QUESTION
OF HOW MANY WE'VE HAD IF
THERE'S ENOUGH STOPS IN JUST
THE TIME THAT WE'VE HAD, WE
MIGHT STILL BE ABLE TO DO THAT
TO BE ABLE TO BREAK IT DOWN BY
RACE AND GENDER.
BUT THE ISSUE FROM THE OTHER
ISSUE FROM THE FIRST REPORT WAS
I WE COULDN'T MAKE ANY
CONCLUSIONS ABOUT EFFECTS
ARRESTS VERSUS WARNINGS VERSUS
SEARCHES AND ALL THOSE KINDS
OF THINGS.
I DON'T BELIEVE THAT HAS BEEN
ADDRESSED AT ALL BECAUSE OF THE
KLEMENS ISSUE.
YEAH, SO WE COULD DO AS LONG AS
THERE HAVE BEEN ENOUGH STOPS IN
IN THE INTERIM WE COULD DO
SOMETHING VERY SIMILAR TO THE
FIRST VERSION THAT WE DID
WITHOUT KIND OF ADDRESSING ANY
OF THE SHORTCOMINGS OF THAT ONE
.
>> THE LAST TIME THERE WAS A
GRANT.
YES.
THAT WE THAT WE RECEIVED WHICH
NO LONGER EXISTS WAS NOT THAT
ONE NO LONGER EXISTS AND I
DON'T KNOW THE WAY THINGS ARE
GOING.
IT MIGHT NOT BE ANY GRANTS
AVAILABLE BUT YEAH, WHERE DID
YOU FIND THAT ONE AND LET US
KNOW WHERE DO WE FIND
LEITHAUSER?
>> I'M SORRY I KNEW ABOUT IT I
BUT WE MY CENTER HAD WORKED
WITH THAT GRANT FOUNDATION A
COUPLE AND A COUPLE
OF DIFFERENT PROJECTS AND SO I
KIND OF ALERTED THE CHAIR AT
THE TIME TO IT'S AVAILABLE AND
WAS THERE FUNDING FROM THAT
DISSOLVED AS WELL?
>> IT WAS ALL THOSE THAT REALLY
WAS A VERY SMALL AMOUNT.
IT WAS IT SOUNDS LIKE A LOT WAS
TWENTY FIVE THOUSAND DOLLARS
BUT THAT'S ABOUT A TENTH
OF WHAT THE PREVIOUS STUDY HAD
COST THE CITY AND WE REALLY USE
THAT TO SUPPORT A GRADUATE
STUDENT DURING THE COURSE THAT
AND SO WHAT IT WOULD COST IT
WOULD BE ANOTHER QUESTION WHERE
THE MONEY WOULD COME FROM THAT
KIND OF STUFF.
SO HOW MUCH WAS THIS?
WAS THIS THE GRANT AS FAR AS
YOU DID WAS TWENTY FIVE
THOUSAND TWENTY FIVE AT THE
TIME.
WHETHER EVEN YOU WOULD AGREE TO
A SIMILAR THING IS I CAN'T
SPEAK FOR HIM ON THOSE KINDS
OF THINGS ANYMORE.
>> RIGHT?
YEAH, SO THE POSSIBILITY I
WOULD IMAGINE EXISTS THAT IS
WILLINGNESS AND THE ABILITY
OF THE THE OTHER PROFESSOR THAT
WORKED AND I BELIEVE HE WOULD
ALSO BE WILLING TO DO IT AGAIN.
SO THE TECHNICAL ABILITY, THE
PERSONAL INVESTMENT IS ALL
THERE IS A QUESTION OF MAKE
SURE WE HAVE ACCESS TO THE DATA
AND THEN HOW TO HOW TO SUPPORT
IT.
>> THANK YOU
.
>> WELL, IT'S VERY POSSIBLE.
YOU KNOW, WE HAD WE HAD SOME
FUNDS LEFT OVER IN OUR BUDGET
LAST YEAR WHICH DOESN'T CARRY
OVER.
BUT IF WE'RE LOOKING AT DOING A
STUDY SAY NEXT YEAR AND WE
EARMARKED SOME OF OUR BUDGET
THIS YEAR AND SOME OF OUR
BUDGET FROM NEXT YEAR, MAYBE WE
COULD COBBLE TOGETHER ENOUGH
FUNDS TO DO SOME EXTRA FUNDING
POSSIBILITIES.
>> I KNOW TOWARDS THE END
OF THE PREVIOUS PRESIDENTIAL
ADMINISTRATION, THE DEPARTMENT
OF JUSTICE ACTUALLY DID SET
ASIDE THERE WERE SOME RESEARCH
GRANTS SPECIFICALLY TO ANALYZE
TRAFFIC STOP DATA FOR THE
MUNICIPALITIES THAT HAVE DONE
TRAFFIC LAWS LIKE I NEVER HAD
HAD KIND DECRIMINALIZED OR NOT
CHANGED TRAFFIC ORDINANCES LIKE
THAT AND THEY WERE SPECIFIC
GRANTS THAT ANALYZE WHAT THE
EFFECTS ARE UNDER THE PREVIOUS
ADMINISTRATION.
I'M NOT SURE IF THEY'RE STILL
THERE.
OH, I DOUBT IT AS FAR AS I KNOW
THE DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
HASN'T BEEN TOUCHED.
RIGHT.
SO I DON'T KNOW.
WELL, THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
I THANK YOU.
YEAH, I THINK WE WOULD HAVE TO
BE WILLING TO WORK ON WRITING
THAT GROUND WITH THE CITY AND
WORKING ON THAT OK, THANK YOU.
WE'LL HAVE TO WORK ON IT IF
THAT'S SOMETHING THAT THE
COMMISSIONERS THINK IS VALUABLE
TO DO TO HAVE A FOLLOW UP STUDY
AND SEE IF THAT THE EQUITY
ORDINANCE MADE A DIFFERENCE I
THINK WE WOULD PROBABLY HAVE TO
ASK COUNCIL IF WE COULD EARMARK
SOME OF OUR THIS YEAR'S BUDGET
AND HOLD IT OVER TO PAY FOR THE
STUDY.
I'M NOT SURE HOW THAT WOULD
WORK BUT I'M WILLING TO LOOK
LOOK INTO IT AND DECIDE BY
COUNCIL PERSONALLY.
HARRISON, WHEN WAS THE DRIVING
QUALITY ORDINANCE PASSED JULY
6TH OF TWENTY THREE TWENTY
TWENTY TWENTY TWENTY THREE.
OKAY SO THIS JULY WE'D HAVE TWO
YEARS TWO YEARS AND NEXT NEXT
JULY WE'D HAVE THREE.
YEAH OK PLEASE PLEASE GIVE SOME
THOUGHT TO THAT ISSUE CHIEF DID
YOU DO YOU ALL HAVE ANYTHING AT
ALL THAT YOU'D LIKE TO COMMENT
ON AT THIS POINT.
YEAH I'M GLAD WE WERE ABLE TO
CONFIRM THE DATE OBVIOUSLY
COUNCIL MEMBER HARRISON WAS
INSTRUMENTAL IN BRINGING THE
DRIVING AND QUALITY AUDITS HERE
AS WELL AS DR. KARPIAK.
WE ARE LOOKING AT THE DATA THAT
HAS BEEN SOMETHING THAT HAS
BEEN PART OF OUR
ADMINISTRATION.
IT'S VERY CRITICAL THAT WE TAKE
A LOOK ALL THE DATA WE DID HAVE
SOME CHALLENGES WITH OUR CLIMOS
BUT IN LIGHT OF WHAT WE HAVE,
WE CAN'T WE CAN'T REALLY YOU
KNOW, START TALKING ABOUT
WHETHER CLEMINS IS ONE HUNDRED
PERCENT ACCURATE.
THOSE HAVE BEEN THE COMMENTS
THAT WE'VE HAD FROM TIME TO
TIME.
WE DON'T FEEL LIKE WE'RE GOING
TO GET THINGS 100 PERCENT
ACCURATE AND WE'RE NOT GOING TO
ALLOW THAT TO BE AN EXCUSE FOR
US MOVING FORWARD.
SO WHAT WE'LL BE DOING HERE IN
THE SHORT TERM IS THAT WE HAVE
OUR DEPARTMENT TAKING A LOOK AT
WHETHER OR NOT WE NEED TO TAKE
A LOOK AT A POLICY THAT CAN
MODIFY PRACTICES WITH RESPECT
TO OUR DRIVING AND QUALITY
AUDITS AS WELL AS PUTTING SOME
TRAINING TOGETHER THAT WE
BELIEVE WE CAN UTILIZE NOT JUST
IN OUR DEPARTMENT BUT
THROUGHOUT THE COUNTY.
SO THAT'S WHAT WE'RE DOING NOW
AND WE SHOULD HAVE SOME
INFORMATION RELATIVELY SOON.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
SO THIS IS SOMETHING THAT WE'LL
KEEP TALKING ABOUT OVER THE
NEXT COUPLE OF MONTHS.
INTERESTINGLY I MENTIONED I HAD
BEEN AT A PUBLIC FORUM WITH THE
SHERIFF AND THEY ARE TRYING ARE
LOOKING AT THE SAME TYPE
OF DRIVING QUALITY TO HAVE IT
COUNTY WIDE BECAUSE SOMEBODY
COULD HAVE A CRACKED WINDSHIELD
IN CITY OF ANN ARBOR AND THEN
DRIVE OUT INTO THE TOWNSHIP AND
GET PICKED UP HERE.
SO YOU KNOW, WE WOULDN'T
CERTAINLY ENCOURAGE THAT TO
HAPPEN.
ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU.
REPORT FROM THE COMMITTEE TO BE
SURE TO ANYTHING FROM THE
POLICY COMMITTEE >> WE'RE STILL
WORKING ON REVIEWING THE POLICE
HANDBOOK AND THEN WE DO HAVE
QUESTIONS BUT WE'LL SET UP A
MEETING WHEN IT'S APPROPRIATE.
GOOD.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU FOR YOUR HARD WORK ON
TRAINING COMMITTEE.
>> HAVE WE BEEN ABLE TO DO
ANYTHING IN TERMS OF SETTING UP
A TRAINING OR REVIEW?
NO, WE HAVEN'T BEEN ABLE TO DO
SO.
BUT I'M GOING TO SPEAK WITH
CHIEF ANDERSON IN THE NEXT WEEK
OR TWO AND WE'RE GOING TO SET
UP A MEETING.
VERY GOOD.
THANK I HAVE A QUESTION ABOUT
IS IT JUST AS IT PERTAINS TO
THE POLICE OVER THE LAST MONTH
THE COMMISSION KNOWN FOR ITS
JUST THE POLICE IN HOW THE
POLICE ARE TRAINED AND IT'S MY
UNDERSTANDING THAT WE CAN'T
ACTUALLY ATTEND ANY OF THE
TRAINING BUT WE WILL BE ABLE TO
SEE THE KINDS OF THINGS THAT
ARE INCLUDED IN THE TRAINING
AND BE ABLE TO ASK QUESTIONS.
>> IS THAT CORRECT?
SURE.
>> I WANT TO TALK A LITTLE BIT
MORE ABOUT WHETHER OR NOT YOU
CAN'T SEE THE TRAINING.
I KNOW THAT WAS SOMETHING THAT
WE TALKED ABOUT BEFORE AND I
NEED TO TALK TO MY STAFF A
LITTLE BIT MORE ABOUT THAT.
I DO THINK THAT YOU NEED TO SEE
THE TRAINING.
THERE ARE SOME THINGS THAT WE
WE NEED YOU TO TAKE A LOOK AT
IN TERMS OF WHAT WE'RE DOING
AND I THINK THAT WE SHOULD
CREATE SOME TRAINING THAT WILL
ALLOW FOR US TO LOOK AT IT
TOGETHER.
ONE GOOD START WOULD BE IS HOW
WE'RE GOING TO LOOK AT THE
DRIVING QUALITY ORDINANCE.
I THINK THAT WE CAN WORK
TOGETHER ON THAT TRAINING BUT
WE WANT TO PROVIDE YOU OVERVIEW
OF WHAT WE'RE DOING RIGHT NOW.
WE HAVE SOME THINGS THAT WE ARE
PUTTING OUT TO THE COMMUNITY,
ESPECIALLY WITH RESPECT TO THE
AND HOW WE'RE WORKING WITH
COMMUNITY MENTAL HEALTH.
WE HAVE THEM AS PART OF OUR
TRAINING RIGHT NOW ALL OF OUR
POLICE OFFICERS ARE GETTING
TRAINING.
WE'RE GETTING TRAINING ON
CRISIS INTERVENTION TRAINING.
WE'RE DOING THAT RIGHT NOW.
WE DEVELOP DEVELOPING A
COORDINATOR THAT CAN WORK ON
THAT ON A REGULAR BASIS.
THERE ARE A NUMBER OF THINGS
THAT WE'RE DOING THAT WE NEED
TO HAVE YOU COME ON BOARD.
IS THAT TRAINING?
SO WE'LL TALK ABOUT IT.
I KNOW YOU'VE BEEN DILIGENT
ABOUT MAKING SURE WE GET
TOGETHER AND GET A DATE.
I'M GOING TO PROVIDE YOU SOME
DAYS TODAY SO THAT WE CAN MEET
AND START COORDINATING HOW WE
CAN LOOK AT THAT TRAINING.
VERY GOOD.
THANK YOU.
YOU KNOW, I DON'T I DON'T KNOW
WHERE THIS CAME FROM.
I BELIEVE THERE WAS A MEETING
THAT DR. KARPIAK HAD PULLED
TOGETHER OF CHAIRS OF THE
VARIOUS POLICE OVERSIGHT
COMMISSIONS IN THE AREA AND I
REMEMBER SOMEONE SAYING THEY
HAD ATTENDED A TRAINING WHERE
IT WAS LIKE THAT YOU'RE
ACTUALLY INVOLVED IN A
SITUATION WHERE THERE'S A GUN
AND THERE'S ALL YOU KNOW HOW
THE HOW YOU REACT TO THAT AND
IT WAS EYE OPENING TO THE
PERSON WHO SAW THIS TRAINING AS
TO EXACTLY HOW QUICKLY THINGS
CAN HAPPEN.
YOU KNOW, WHEN YOU'RE OUT THERE
AND AND IT WAS SOMETHING THAT
WE COULD GO TO I DON'T KNOW.
DOES THAT DO YOU HAVE ANY IDEA
WHAT I'M TALKING ABOUT BECAUSE
I DON'T ABSOLUTELY KNOW
SERGEANT KING ELECTED TO SPEAK
TO THAT BUT WE WOULD LOVE TO
PUT THAT TRAINING OFF YOU TO
HAVE AN OPPORTUNITY AND
SARGENTINI YOU WANT TO TALK
ABOUT IT?
>> ABSOLUTELY.
SHOOTING OCCUR AND
COMMISSIONERS.
SO I BELIEVE THE TWO THAT I'M
FAMILIAR WITH ARE AN OLDER
SISTER MYLO.
I DON'T KNOW IF ANYBODY HERE
HAS HEARD OF THAT BUT PROBABLY
BEFORE THE COMMISSION WAS
FORMED THAT WAS SOMETHING THAT
WE DID AS PART OF OUR ANNUAL
REFRESHER TRAINING THAT'S
BASICALLY KIND OF LIKE A V.R.
SIMULATED THING WHERE YOU'RE
KIND OF PUT INTO VARIOUS
SITUATIONS AND YOU KIND
OF REACT TO THAT.
AND I BELIEVE THAT TIME SOME I
DON'T KNOW IF IT WAS OFFICIAL
PART OF ANY SORT OF CITY
COMMISSION GROUPS OR INVITED TO
COME THAT BUT AS OF LATE I KNOW
DEPARTMENTS ACROSS THE COUNTRY
HAVE EVEN INVOLVED THEIR
OVERSIGHT COMMITTEES OR VARIOUS
CITIZEN GROUPS TO COME OUT AND
PARTICIPATE IN FORCE ON FORCE
TRAINING WITH SIMULATION
ROUNDS.
THAT'S DEFINITELY SOMETHING THE
YOU KNOW, IN MY POSITION WITH
INTERNAL AFFAIRS OR
PROFESSIONAL STANDARDS AND WE
WORK CLOSELY WITH THE TRAINING
UNIT AS WELL.
OBVIOUSLY ONCE DEFICIENCIES ARE
REALIZED THAT'S PART OF THE
OPTIONS THAT WE HAVE FOR
DISPOSITION WISE.
SO WE WORK CLOSELY WITH THE
TRAINING UNIT.
I CAN DEFINITELY REACH OUT TO
THEM AND SEE IF THERE'S
ANYTHING THAT WE COULD PUT
TOGETHER THAT YOU GUYS COULD
COME OUT AND EITHER OBSERVE OR
ACTIVELY PARTICIPATE IN BECAUSE
I THINK ONCE YOU DO PARTICIPATE
IN THAT IT'S THAT'S VERY EYE
OPENING AS WELL.
>> SO AND ALSO FOR US AND I'M
THINKING THAT PERHAPS WE COULD
INVITE SOME SOME COMMUNITY
MEMBERS TO SHARE, YOU KNOW,
WHERE THEY CAN ALSO PARTICIPATE
IN THAT KIND OF LEARNING
EXPERIENCE.
SO ABSOLUTELY WE'D APPRECIATE
IF YOU'D LOOK INTO THAT
SERGEANT SCOTT AND WE'LL GO
FROM THERE.
ONE THING I DO WANT TO HIT ON
REAL QUICK IS OUR NEXT
TRANSPARENCY MEETING.
I KNOW AN EMAIL GOT SENT OUT
FOR THAT THURSDAY, APRIL 17TH
ONE THIRTY PM OBVIOUSLY ALL ARE
WELCOME AND I KNOW WHAT OUR
LAST ONE WE BRIEFLY HIT ON THE
RECOMMENDATIONS HOW THOSE ARE
IMPLEMENTED OR IF THEY'RE
IMPLEMENTED.
ALL RIGHT.
SO I JUST THOUGHT THAT WOULDN'T
BE A BAD FORUM TO BE ABLE TO
REVIEW SOME OF THE STUFF FROM
THE PREVIOUS TRANSPARENCY
MEETING AND ADD THAT TO OUR
AGENDA FOR EACH TRANSPARENCY
MEETING MOVING FORWARD.
>> SO SAY I WANT TO GO.
I THOUGHT IT WAS ONE THIRD ONE
THIRD OF WHAT THEY DO.
I KNOW IT'LL BE IN THE THIRD
FLOOR
OF THE POLICE DEPARTMENT
IN THE DETECTIVE BUREAU
CONFERENCE ROOM.
>> SO WHAT HAPPENS IS WE
USUALLY HEAR IN THE LOWER BODY
AND THE WALK OF AND THEN WE'LL
ALL WALK OVER TOGETHER.
>> WE'RE GOING TO TRY TO HAVE
SNACKS AND WATER THIS GREAT
GREAT RECOMMENDATION.
SO SO THIS IS SOMETHING THAT
WHEN WE HAVE OUR TRANSPARENCY
MEETINGS THIS IS NOT OR IS IT
IT'S A QUESTION LIMITED TO
INFORMATION MANAGERS.
>> CAN OTHER COMMISSIONERS
COME?
I'M NOT SURE IF WE'VE
ESTABLISHED THAT BUT I THINK
THEY INVITE WENT OUT TO THE
WHOLE COMMISSION IF I'M NOT
MISTAKEN INFORMATION MANAGERS.
HOWEVER, IT'S THE OPPOSITE
COMMISSIONERS JUST BEFORE IT IS
OK PERFIDIA IT'S SOMETHING I'LL
HAVE TO DISCUSS WITH THE CHIEF
AND EVERYBODY ELSE BUT AND I
THINK WITH THOSE MOVING FORWARD
WE'RE GOING TO TRY TO WRAP IN
OUR TRAINING SERGEANT WITH THAT
AS WELL.
THAT WAY HE'S THERE REAL TIME
AND ABLE TO KIND OF ANSWER ANY
QUESTIONS THAT COME UP AS FAR
AS TRAINING IS CONCERNED.
SO SO THAT'S THE SEVENTEENTH
OF APRIL AT ONE THIRTY.
YES, MA'AM.
AND WE'LL WE'LL GET A MEETING
POINT TO ANYBODY WHO WANTS TO
COME UP.
JUST MEET US DOWNSTAIRS AND
COME AS A WALKERSTON.
OH, WHAT DO YOU SAY CHIEF IS
SAYING SOMETHING IS IT ALL THIS
TIME YOU KNOW WE UNLESS WE
CHANGE WHAT WE HAVE IS PART
OF WHAT WE HAVE IN OUR
ORDINANCE.
I THINK THE WAY IT'S SET UP IS
FOR THE INFORMATION MANAGERS
BECAUSE PRIMARILY WE'RE GOING
TO BE TALKING ABOUT REALLY
SENSITIVE INFORMATION WHICH YOU
ALSO GET.
BUT THE WAY YOU HAVE THINGS SET
UP IS FOR YOUR INFORMATION
MANAGERS UNLESS YOU CHANGE IT
WE DON'T HAVE ANY PROBLEM
REALLY PROVIDING THAT
TRANSPARENCY.
WE JUST WANT TO MAKE SURE WE'RE
FOLLOWING WHAT WHAT WE'VE DONE
IN THE PAST.
SO YEAH, THAT'S KIND OF WHERE
IT WORKS.
WE DON'T HIDE ANYTHING FROM YOU
BUT WE JUST WANT TO FOLLOW A
PROCESS NOW.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH BECAUSE
WE WE TALKED ABOUT THIS AT THE
LAST MEETING AND WE TALKED
ABOUT HAVING THE WHOLE
COMMISSION INFORMED SOMEHOW
ABOUT THE COMPLAINTS AND AND IN
OUR RESPONSES TO THE COMPLAINTS
YOU HAVE SOMETHING FOR US TO
SEE.
SO UNDER THE INFORMATION
MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE OF THE
COMMISSION HAD ASKED AT THE
LAST MEETING FOR SOME TYPE
OF REPORT TO BE GENERATED.
IT CAPTURES THE IG COMPLAINT,
THE DETAILS AND INFORMATION
OF THE REPORT ARGUED IN EFFECT
IT IS JUST THE DRAFT A FINAL
BUT JUST TO SHOW YOU ALL THE NO
NO COMPLAINTS YOU SEE IT DOES
NOT DETAIL HOW THE COMPANY IS.
IT IS SPECIFICALLY, YOU KNOW
THE NUMBER WHERE THIS THAT IS
RIGHT NOW AND THEN THE
COMPLAINT SO YOU DID MENTION
THESE ARE ONLY FROM THOSE
COMPLAINTS THAT CAME THROUGH
NOT THAT WAY THROUGH THE THAT
WAS SO THANK YOU SO NOW WE'RE
LOOKING AT JUST THE INFORMATION
MANAGERS ATTENDING THE
TRANSPARENCY MEETING.
WE'LL KEEP WORKING THESE
YOU
KNOW WHAT WAS IT YOU ARE
OF CONFIDENCE WHO WANTS TO
REVIEW THE COMPLAINTS?
>> YEAH, I KNOW COMMISSIONER
PIPIS BUDGET CHAIR OLTMAN
SURAKARTA, COMMISSIONER GREEN
AND COMMISSIONER OUT THE OK,
JUST LET ME JUST ADD THE THING
TO THE TRAINING.
I THINK ANYONE WHO ATTENDED THE
ACADEMY POLICE ACADEMY AS WELL
AS THROUGH THE AP AND ALSO THE
SHERIFF OFFICE HAD THE CHANCE
TO DO THE LIVE TRAINING USING
WEAPONS.
SO THAT WAS PART OF THE
SCHEDULE AND THE TRAINING FOR
US WHEN WE ATTENDED BOTH IT WAS
A WHILE AGO WAS BACK.
YEAH, YEAH.
THAT WAS ABOUT DJAKARTA IN
GROUPS THE TRAINING REALLY
TECHNICAL REALLY WHAT IT IS IS
JUDGE MENTAL TRAINING.
SO THAT'S WHAT IT IS AND IT'S
BASICALLY TO ASSESS HOW YOU
JUDGE OR RESPOND TO A SITUATION
THAT POLICE OFFICERS ARE
ACTUALLY GIVING.
SO IT REALLY IS TRAINING.
I'M REALLY EXCITED TO SEE YOU
ALL PARTAKE IN THAT TRAINING SO
YOU GET A REALLY VIEW ON THE
SPLIT SECOND DECISIONS THAT
POLICE OFFICERS MAKE TO
ENCOUNTER A PERSON IS SOMETIMES
NOT TO ENCOUNTER A PERSON SO
THEY NEED TO BE ABLE TO THINK
ABOUT THAT AND TO DE-ESCALATE
IF WE ENCOUNTER A PERSON THAT
IS EXPERIENCING SOME TYPE
OF MENTAL MENTAL DISORDER OR IF
THERE'S SOMETHING OF THAT
NATURE, IT'LL IT'LL EXPLAIN
WHAT WE NEED TO DO AND WE
SHOULD RESPOND APPROPRIATELY.
>> THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR THE
TRAINING WE ARE TALKING ABOUT
IS FOR ALL THE COMMISSIONERS
NOT JUST WRITE THE TRAINING WE
WERE PROVIDED TO YOU CHAIR WITH
AN INVITE TO ALL THE
COMMISSIONERS AND THEN WE WOULD
ASK YOU ALL TO COME IN AND
WE'LL SET THE TRAINING UP AND
WE WILL WORK OBVIOUSLY THROUGH
YOUR TRAINING TRAINING
COORDINATOR BECAUSE WE WORK TO
CHAIR HEYNS AS WELL.
BUT I THINK WHAT WE'LL DO IS
WE'LL PROBABLY LIKELY SEND IT
THROUGH YOU AND OBVIOUSLY YOUR
TRAINING COORDINATOR AND WILL
GET IT MOVING FORWARD.
>> THAT SOUNDS REALLY GOOD.
MAYBE WE CAN DO IT BEFORE WE
SORT OF BREAK FOR THE SUMMER.
BUT IF NOT, YOU KNOW, WE CAN
WE'RE GENERALLY AROUND SO WE
CAN MAKE IT HAPPEN.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
YOU'RE WELCOME.
AND AND ALSO AS WE SPEAK
OF TRAINING AND FOR US TO BE
TRAINED IN OUR JOB I DON'T
THINK I HAVEN'T SEEN THE DATE
YET FOR THE NACOLE CONFERENCE
THIS FALL HASN'T COME UP BUT AS
SOON AS IT COMES OUT EVERYBODY
PLEASE LOOK AT IT, SEE IF YOU
CAN MAKE IT AND PUT IT ON YOUR
CALENDAR.
WE CAN SEND AS MANY
COMMISSIONERS AS WANT TO GO AND
ALSO THERE IS TRAINING SEMINARS
THAT COME OUT, WEBINARS THAT
COME OUT FROM NAKUL IF YOU WANT
TO TAKE OH EXCUSE ME WITH I GOT
TO SNEEZE THAT QUITE SO LET ME
LET ME KNOW IF YOU SEE ONE THAT
YOU WANT TO GO TO.
I KNOW COMMISSIONAIRE HAINES'S
HAS HAS TAKEN ONE OF THOSE
WEBINARS.
DID YOU FIND IT HELPFUL VERY.
SO IF YOU SEE IT AND YOU WANT
TO ATTEND PM'S COMMENTS CAN
SIGN UP OK, THANK YOU OUTREACH
COMMITTEE NOW I DON'T I KNOW
THAT MY VISION OF FRANCIS IS
NOT HERE NOW COMMISSIONER
MANLEY, DID YOU HAVE YOU MET AT
ALL WITH REGARD TO THE OUTREACH
COMMITTEE?
WE DID NOT PHYSICALLY TO SEND
THAT INFORMATION TODAY SAYING
THAT WE DID IT RIGHT
THAT THEY
HAVEN'T REALLY SO SUBTLE ON THE
THEME YET.
BUT SHE HAD AN IDEA SHE HAS
ASKED AFTER CARPET TO SPEAK AND
WE'LL ADDRESS POLICE OVERSIGHT.
SHE ALSO SHYAM OUR AS OUR OTHER
SPEAKER AND WE'LL DISCUSS ROLES
RELATED TO POLICE INTERACTION
AND HOMELESS OLDER ADULTS AND
SHE ASKED COMMISSIONER BILLUPS
TO SPEAK ON BEHALF OF THESE
NEIGHBORHOODS AND NOT AT THAT
TIME SAID THEY WOULD DO IT OR
NOT BE THE THING SHE WAS
THINKING ABOUT WAS I AM
THINKING OF SOMETHING LIKE
COMMUNITY CONVERSATIONS AND I
WANTED TO SEND HER A SUGGESTION
HOW ABOUT COMMUNITY CONNECTION
AND CAMPUS?
>> SO YOU KNOW, I'M JUST
THINKING WE'VE SCHEDULED THIS
FOR THE END OF MAY AND NOW IT'S
IN THE MARCH.
I DON'T KNOW IF WE CAN GET IT
TOGETHER ON I'M JUST REALLY
THIS MISSING WITH MISSING
WHAT'S MISSING.
>> THEY WOULDN'T BE ABLE TO BE
PULLED OFF BY ME IN THE MORNING
TO YOU KNOW, THIS IS JUST MY
OPINION AND THIS NOT A KNOCK ON
ON ANYBODY WHO'S BEEN MENTIONED
.
BUT YOU KNOW, I HAD I HAD
MENTIONED EARLIER IF WE HAVE
SOMEONE THAT PEOPLE WILL WANT
TO COME OUT AND HEAR SOMEONE
THAT MAY PERHAPS CHARGE AN
HONORARY BUT THAT PEOPLE WOULD
SAY OH YEAH, I WANT TO COME OUT
AND HEAR THIS PERSON THING
IDEAS HAVE BEEN GOING THROUGH
MY MIND AND LET ME TELL YOU
THIS ONE I WAS CONCERNED I
WATCHED TOO MUCH NEWS BUT IF
YOU SAW WHAT'S HAPPENING IN
D.C. WHERE WHERE THEY'RE COMING
IN AND TAKING OVER VARIOUS
GOVERNMENTAL BUILDINGS, LOCKING
PEOPLE OUT AND I WAS CONCERNED
BECAUSE THE D.C. POLICE CAME IN
AND SUPPORT THE FOLKS WHO WERE
COMING IN PUTTING PEOPLE OUT
OF THEIR BILLS, OUT OF THEIR
BUILDING AND SAID ARE THE
POLICE IN A DILEMMA IN THIS IN
THIS ENVIRONMENT THAT WE'RE IN
IF THE POLICE DEPARTMENT IS
ASKED TO DO SOMETHING THAT
MAYBE THE COMMUNITY DOESN'T
WANT THEM TO DO, I DON'T KNOW.
>> I'M THINKING AND THESE JUST
THINGS THAT ARE GOING ON IN MY
MIND CAN WE DRAW A CROWD TO A
SYMPOSIUM JUST TO TALK ABOUT
JUST TO TALK AND I DON'T KNOW
.
I DON'T KNOW AND THAT'S JUST
ME.
ANYBODY ELSE HAVE ANY THOUGHTS
?
>> YEAH.
I MEAN WELL I WILL SAY YOU DO
YOU SHOULD HAVE A REASON AMOUNT
OF TIME TO ADVERTISE A COUPLE
OF MONTHS.
IT'S REALLY A MINIMUM RIGHT TO
GET IF YOU WANT TO GET FOLKS
THERE RIGHT SO SO WE'RE
LITERALLY TWO MONTHS SO THAT'S
THAT'S WHY MAY IS TOO IS TOO
CLOSE TO MY OPINION BUT I DO
AGREE THAT YOU NEED TO HAVE A
DRAW SOMEBODY THAT PEOPLE WANT
TO COME IN HERE AND NOT THAT
THEY WOULDN'T WANT TO COME IN.
OH PLEASE NO I DON'T HAVE
ANYTHING TO SAY BUT WE DO NEED
TO HAVE A DRAW AND I DO FEEL
THAT A LARGER DRAW, YOU KNOW,
THAN THE PEOPLE WHO HAVE BEEN
MENTIONED.
SO THAT MIGHT BE A REASON TO TO
DELAY IT A LITTLE BIT OR FIGURE
SOMETHING OUT OR AT LEAST GET
REALLY MOVING ON THE PLANNING
OF IT.
SO CAN ANYBODY THINK OF A DRAW
AS WE SIT HERE TODAY SOMEBODY
MAYBE WE COULD GET TO COME IN
AND KNOW ME.
I MEAN I DO BUT THIS IS
SOMEBODY THAT MAY BE OUT
OF REACH THAT SO THEY CAN'T
THEY DID A THING AT THE
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN A WHILE
BACK WITH THE RACIAL EQUALITY
GROUP.
IT WAS DAVID BANNER AND SOME
OTHER PEOPLE THAT WERE ON THE
SYMPOSIUM AND IT WAS JUST A
THOUGHT AT THE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN AND THAT WAS A BIG
TURNOUT.
I'M NOT SURE THAT OTHER PEOPLE
THAT WERE THERE AS WELL BUT
WELL WHY DON'T WE DO THIS?
LET'S LET'S LEAVE IT ON
CALLENDAR.
LET'S LET THE COMMITTEE
CONTINUE TO WORK AND WE'LL SEE
IF WE CAN COMMUNICATE BEFORE
THE NEXT MEETING WITH ONE
ANOTHER IF ANYBODY COMES UP
WITH ANYTHING, LET US KNOW WHAT
THE NEXT MEETING IS REALLY TOO
LATE I THINK TO START
ADVERTISING THAT'S THAT'S JUST
ME.
THAT'S RIGHT.
WE'LL BE MEETING ON MONDAY SO
WE'LL TALK ABOUT IT.
YOU OK?
ANYTHING ELSE ON THE ON THE
SYMPOSIUM AND YOU KNOW MAYBE WE
CAN MOVE IT FROM MAY TO JUNE
BUT LET'S LET'S KEEP THINKING
OK, INFORMATION MANAGERS
COMMITTEE I DON'T HAVE MUCH TO
SAY ABOUT THE COMPLAINTS BUT UH
WE HAD RECEIVED ABOUT FOURTEEN
OR SO COMPLAINTS AND MAYBE 11
OF THEM CAME FROM ONE PERSON
AND RELATED TO THE POLICE
PARKING THEIR CARS AND METERED
AREAS AND THERE WAS FROM THE
EMAILS WE GOT IS THIS AS BEING
AND THE WORK TO CHANGE THE
POLICIES AND WHEN THE POLICIES
BECOME AVAILABLE WE CAN CONVEY
THAT TO THE COMMUNITY AND PLUS
THERE IS THERE WAS ONE
COMPLAINT THAT THE POLICE HAD
RESPONDED TO THE COMPLAINT
ABOUT THAT MEASURES WERE TAKEN
AND THEY'RE ALSO WORKING ON THE
POLICIES THE I'M GOING TO MIX A
LITTLE BIT OF THE
COMMUNICATIONS WITH THE REPORT
WE HAD A UH AN EMAIL THAT WAS
FORWARDED TO US FROM WHICH ARE
ABOUT ANOTHER OVERSIGHT
COMMISSION FROM FERNDALE AND
THEY WANTED TO CHECK WITH US
ABOUT A AN APPEAL FOR
THEY HAD
THE REPORT AND THE COMPLAINANT
DID NOT AGREE OR ACCEPT THE
FINDINGS OF THE COMMISSION AND
IF WE HAVE ANYTHING TO HELP
THEM OUT, THIS IS A NEW
COMMISSION IS ABOUT TWO YEAR
OLD AND I HAD A CHANCE TO SPEAK
WITH THE DIRECTOR OF THAT.
THE CHAIR OF THE COMMISSION AND
MR. BROWN IS PROBABLY GOING TO
COME TO OUR APRIL MEETING.
I WILL BE IN TOUCH WITH HIM TO
REMIND HIM OF OUR INVITATION
AND ALSO THAT BE AN OPPORTUNITY
FOR OVERSIGHT COMMISSION IN THE
AREA TO REALLY GET TOGETHER AND
FORM SOME KIND OF A AN OPEN
DIALOG DISCUSSING ISSUES THAT
ARE RELATED TO OUR FUNCTIONS
AND IF WE CAN LEARN FROM EACH
OTHER.
SO THAT IS ONE.
THE OTHER THING IS WAS AN EMAIL
THAT CAME TO US FROM LIEUTENANT
TURLEY ABOUT HIM NOT BEING HERE
TODAY BECAUSE HE SAID THAT HE
APOLOGIZED FOR NOT BEING HERE
BUT HE SENT US THE EMAIL THAT
DISCUSSED THAT THE NEW
MANAGEMENT SOFTWARE IS BEING
INTRODUCED AND BEING TRAINED ON
.
HE MENTIONED THAT IT'S
DIFFICULT TO MERGE BOTH NUMBERS
COMPLAINTS THAT ARE RECEIVED BY
AP AND AND STILL BELIEVE THAT
THIS IS DOABLE AND HE SAID THAT
SERGEANT TURLEY WOULD BE
WORKING ON THAT TO SEE IF WE
CAN GET THIS DONE.
AND I THINK IT'S REALLY
IMPORTANT TO HAVE THAT
STREAMLINED AND THE SYSTEM IS
FLEXIBLE AND CAN ACCOMMODATE
JUST HAVING THE SUFFOLKS AT THE
END OF THE COMPLAINT TO BE P.C.
OR I SEE IT SHOULD BE DONE AND
THAT WOULD REMOVE ANY KIND
OF CONFLICT OF NUMBER FIVE
COMPLAINTS THAT WE RECEIVED AS
COMMISSION AND NUMBER FIVE
RECEIVED BY APD ARE DIFFERENT.
IT SHOULD BE ONE OR THE SAME.
WE JUST LET'S SAY WE GIVE
NUMBER SOMEONE TWO HUNDRED PER
YEAR AND WHOMEVER COMES FIRST
WILL JUST ADD THE ISI OR PC TO
TO THE NUMBER THAT WOULD MAKE
IT EASIER FOR ALL OF US TO DO
IT.
IT MIGHT REQUIRE SOME KIND
OF WORK AND I FEEL THAT BECAUSE
THE SYSTEM IS NOW BEING
AVAILABLE TO TRAINING AT THE
POLICE DEPARTMENT THAT THAT CAN
BE PROBABLY WORKED ON AND TO BE
INCLUDED AND NO BECAUSE THAT
WOULD MAKE LIFE EASIER FOR THE
INFORMATION MANAGER AS WELL AS
FOR THE POLICE SO WE DON'T HAVE
TO SWITCH BACK AND FORTH AND
KNOWING WHICH ONE IS SO THIS IS
A PART OF OUR REPORT OVER HERE.
SO SO WHERE ARE WE WITH THE NEW
NUMBERING SYSTEM?
DID WE SEND IT TO THE
DEPARTMENT OR DO WHERE ARE WE
STILL WE HAVE NOT HAD ANYTHING
WITH THE NUMBERING BECAUSE IF
WE CANNOT WORK THAT OUT INTO
THE NEW MANAGEMENT SOFTWARE
THAT WOULD MAKE IT A LITTLE BIT
DIFFICULT.
SO I'M NOT SURE OF YEAH PLEASE
CAN ABSOLUTELY CLAIM THAT I SAW
THE EMAIL LIEUTENANT PAT SAID I
JUST WANT TO SHED A LITTLE BIT
OF LIGHT ON THAT BECAUSE THE
PROGRAM'S AUTOMATIC SEQUENCING
OF THEIR NUMBERS IS WHY WE
CAN'T ADD I SEE THE P C THE C C
WHAT YOU'VE SEEN BEFORE AT THE
END HOWEVER WE CAN GO IN THERE
AND ASSIGN IT KIND OF AT THE
BEGINNING OF HOWEVER THE
COMPLAINT COMES IN THAT WAY IT
DELINEATES WHERE IT CAME FROM
INTERNALLY, EXTERNALLY.
BUT LIEUTENANT AND I HAD THAT
INITIAL TRAINING WITH THE
REPRESENTATIVE FROM APRIL AND
BLUE TEAM WE ARE WORKING
OURSELVES ON HOW TO INPUT OUR
FIRST INITIAL INFORMATION IN
THAT IT'S IT WAS A THREE DAY
ALL DAY TRAINING FOR THREE DAYS
STRAIGHT.
THERE'S A LOT THAT GOES INTO IT
WE'RE TRYING TO IRONING OUT OR
WE'RE TRYING TO IRON OUT THE
KINKS ON OUR END AND THEN WITH
THAT COMES PROBABLY SOME POLICY
UPDATE AS WELL.
BUT WITH SERGEANT PETTILY
THAT'S KIND OF CONFUSING.
LIEUTENANT PERLEY AND SERGEANT
SERGEANT PETTILY BEING THE
TECHNOLOGY SERGEANT, THE
SUGGESTION WAS BECAUSE OF HIS
KNOWLEDGE ON SHAREPOINT
SPECIFICALLY WE COULD OFFER HIS
SERVICES TO KIND GET IN THERE
AND KIND OF WORK ON THE BACK
END AS FAR AS WHAT YOU SEE IN
SHAREPOINT TO CLEAN THAT WHOLE
THING UP THAT WAY AT LEAST FOR
THE TIME BEING IT'S EASIER TO
FOLLOW ON THAT ON THE
SHAREPOINT PORTAL IF THAT MAKES
SENSE.
>> IT'S SORT OF DOES SO BUT
MAYBE IF YOU WE HAVE TO WAIT
FOR YOU TO WORK OUT YOUR END
AND THEN WE'LL WE'LL HOPEFULLY
BE ABLE TO WORK OUT SOMETHING
THAT WORKS FOR BOTH OF US FOR
SURE WHEN YOU GET IT TOGETHER.
OK, THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
JUST PROBABLY TO ADD ONE MORE
THING OK, THIS IS AS YOU
MENTIONED ABOUT WEBINARS.
I THINK THAT ONE OF THE
WEBINARS FROM NICOLE AND IT WAS
ON THE LIMITATIONS OF USING
VIDEOS AS EVIDENCE AND
ESPECIALLY IN COURT AND THE
PERSON WHO WAS PRESENTING THE
WEBINAR WHO WAS GIVEN THE
WEBINAR WAS FROM EXXON BUT ALSO
HAD AN EXPERIENCE WITH THE
SYSTEM THE EXXON IS USING TO
PLAY ANY TYPE OF VIDEO AS IT'S
CALLED EXXON INVESTIGATIVE AND
I BELIEVE THAT THE APD IS USING
ANOTHER SYSTEM BEFORE FOR FOR
THAT ONE OF THE QUESTIONS THEY
HAD WAS BECAUSE ALL POLICE
DEPARTMENTS USING EXXON CAMERAS
ARE THESE ALSO HAVING SOME KIND
OF HEALTH PROBLEMS IF YOU PLAY
THE VIDEOS BACK AND THE ANSWER
WAS NOT BECAUSE THE VIDEO IS
BEING RECORDED AT FIXED RATE
MEANING THAT FRAME PER UNIT PER
SECOND AS FIXED RATE IF TWENTY
OR THIRTY OR WHATEVER NUMBER
OF FRAMES PER SECOND THIS IS
WHAT YOU SEE NOW IF YOU GET THE
OLD CCTV OR IF YOU GET
SOMETHING FROM YOUR PHONE OR
FROM THE RING ON ON THE DOOR OR
SO THAT MIGHT HAVE DIFFERENT
FRAMES EVEN EVEN THE SAME VIDEO
WOULD BE DONE AT DIFFERENT
FRAMES.
SO IF YOU IF YOU PLAY IT AT A
PARTICULAR SPEED YOU LOSE THE
NATURE OF OF THE VIDEO ITSELF
AND YOU CAN MAKE A JUDGMENT
THAT IS GOING TO BE NOT HOLDING
IN THE COURT.
>> SO YOU HAVE TO ENSURE THAT
THAT THAT WAS REALLY GOOD.
THANK YOU A A LOT OF PEOPLE
REALLY DON'T UNDERSTAND AND TRY
TO MAKE A TECHNICAL SCENARIO
WHERE WE CAN KIND OF DIGEST
WHAT WE'RE TALKING ABOUT.
WE DO HAVE A PROGRAM CALLED
AXUM INVESTIGATE.
SO WHAT HAPPENS IS IF YOU A
REGULAR PERSON AND IT HAPPENS
ALL THE TIME YOU SEE A VIDEO
THE VIDEO COULD BE FROM A
SITUATION WHERE A PERSON HAS A
CD PLAYER WHERE THEIR
COLLECTIVE VIDEO OF AN INCIDENT
THAT YOU SEE ON TV WHERE IT
INVOLVES AN OFFICER IT COULD BE
INVOLVE A USE OF FORCE OR A
SHOOTING AND YOU SEE THE VIDEO
AND WHAT YOU SEE IN THE VIDEO
IS TAKEN FROM PERHAPS SOME
SYSTEM THAT DOESN'T REALLY
CAPTURE THE REAL SPEED
OF WHAT'S HAPPENING FRAMES PER
SECOND.
SO WHAT'S HAPPENING IS IS
YOU'RE ACTUALLY MISSING WHAT
REALLY OCCURRED BECAUSE YOUR
EYES ARE NOT ABLE TO CAPTURE
THINGS THE WAY SOME YOUR EYES
CAN CAPTURE THINGS A LOT FASTER
REALITY DENHA SOMETIMES THE WAY
A CAMERA SET UP IT'S SO FOR
EXAMPLE, YOU SEE A PERSON
STRIKE SOMEONE BUT WHEN THEY
HAVE THE VIDEO YOU WILL NOT SEE
THE STRIKE OR YOU MAY SEE A
POLICE OFFICER STRIKE THEN THEY
MAY RESPOND YOU I SEE IT AND
YOU THINK THAT YOU SAW IT.
SO WHAT HAPPENS WHAT EXXON
INVESTIGATE IS IT TAKES THE
ACTUAL REAL IT IT CAN IT CAN
COMPRESS OR TAKE A LOOK AT THE
ACTUAL FOOTAGE AND OFTENTIMES
IT CAN GET IN THE BACKGROUND
AND ACTUALLY SEE SOMETIMES
CREATE REAL TIME SPEED OF WHAT
REALLY HAPPENS.
SO IT REALLY IT REALLY IS A
SCIENCE WITH RESPECT TO VIDEOS
AND THAT'S KIND OF HOW THAT
WORKS AND WE HAVE TO USE THAT
MORE OFTEN.
THE OTHER COMPONENT I THINK YOU
TALKED ABOUT IS A PROGRAM THAT
I KNOW DOCTOR CHAIR YOU'VE
MENTIONED TO US AS WE TALK
ABOUT CALLED TRULY AND IT TRULY
IS A PROGRAM THAT ALLOWS FOR US
TO CREATE LABELS FOR INCIDENTS
.
SO IF WE CREATE LABELS ON USE
OF FORCE OR CERTAIN TYPES
OF STATEMENTS TRULY OR CAPTURED
INFORMATION ON A BODY WORN
CAMERA AND IN ALLOW FOR US TO
GO DIRECTLY TO THE INCIDENT
VIEW TO VIEW THE BODY WORN
CAMERA FOOTAGE AND THEN YOU ALL
CAN EVALUATE WHAT TRANSPIRED
AND WE'RE REALLY UNABLE TO DO
THAT WITHOUT HAVING A PROGRAM
THAT RUNS FOR THE MOST PART A
GENERATIVE A.I. IT IS THE
ABILITY TO DECIPHER THROUGH
INFORMATION QUICKLY AND ALLOW
US TO LOOK AT THE VIDEO SO THAT
WE CAN DETERMINE LANGUAGE USE
OF FORCE, THINGS OF THAT NATURE
.
THOSE ARE TWO THINGS THAT KIND
OF HELP ADVANCE LAW
ENFORCEMENT.
THANK YOU, JAKE.
YOU'RE WELCOME.
YOU KNOW THE ANSWER I WAS I WAS
READING AND I FORGET WHAT
COUNTY IT WAS IN A NEIGHBORING
COUNTY LIKE JUST RECENTLY.
I THINK THE INVESTIGATION IS
STILL ONGOING BUT THERE WAS A
THE OFFICER WAS CALLED THERE
WAS A FIGHT IN A CAR AND THE
MAN IN THE CAR HAD PULLED IT IS
LIKE A NOT A SHARP KNIFE BUT I
DON'T WANT TO SAY A KNIFE.
THEY USED TO CALL IT A CASE
KNIFE WHERE IT WAS JUST YOU
KNOW, THE THE KNIFE THAT YOU
USE NOT TO CUT YOUR MEAT.
OK, AND APPARENTLY THOUGH HE
HAD SHARPENED IT SOME KIND
OF WAY AND WAS FIGHTING WITH
THE DRIVER AND THE POLICE
PULLED HIM OVER, HE HE WENT
AFTER THE OFFICER WITH THIS
KNIFE THAT WAS SHARPENED AND
THE OFFICER SHOT THREE TIMES.
NOW PRAISE GOD HE DIDN'T DIE.
BUT YOU KNOW THESE THINGS I
THINK IT WAS ONE COUNTY RIGHT
AROUND HERE THAT THIS HAPPENED.
I KNOW IF ANYBODY ELSE READ
ABOUT BUT YOU KNOW, WE'RE JUST
SO GRATEFUL THAT WE WE HAVEN'T
HAD AN INCIDENT AND HOPEFULLY
WE WON'T ANYTIME SOON.
BUT IT'S SO IT'S A REAL THING
THAT'S HAPPENING AROUND US.
IF YOU WOULD TAKE A LOOK AT THE
THE SEVERAL PAGE DOCUMENT
THAT'S ATTACHED TO YOUR AGENDA
AT THE LAST MEETING SEVERAL
OF THE COMMISSIONERS WERE
INTERESTED IN BEING INFORMED
ABOUT THE COMPLAINTS THAT I
RECEIVED AND AND OUR RESPONSE
TO THE COMPLAINTS NOW THIS WHAT
MISS KENNEDY PRINTED UP FOR US
THIS IS WHAT'S ALREADY
AVAILABLE.
>> THIS IS AS YOU CAN SEE THIS
IS TWENTY TWENTY FIVE.
SO THESE ARE ALL FAIRLY NEW
COMPLAINTS.
MOST OF THEM AS YOU KNOW, WE
CAN'T ACT UNTIL AFTER THE
DEPARTMENT HAS ACTED.
SO WHEN WE GET THE COMPLAINT WE
SEND IT TO THE DEPARTMENT AND
YOU CAN SEE THAT MOST OF THESE
HAVE BEEN SENT TO THE APD.
>> TAKE A LOOK AT IT.
AND THIS IS IS THIS ENOUGH AND
I SUPPOSE WE COULD DO IT BY THE
MONTH OR TWO MONTHS OR WHATEVER
.
YOU MIGHT WANT MORE INFORMATION
THAN THIS AND THEN WE HAVE TO
WORK ON, YOU KNOW, HOW WE CAN
REPORT OUT.
BUT I KNOW YOU HAVEN'T HAD A
CHANCE TO LOOK AT IT BUT TAKE
IT AND LOOK AND WE'LL TALK
ABOUT THAT AGAIN NEXT MONTH,
OK?
YEAH.
SERGEANT, I JUST WANTED TO GIVE
YOU A QUICK UPDATE ON THOSE THE
COMPLAINTS THAT YOU'VE SEEN
ALREADY THERE.
I BELIEVE EVERYTHING IS IN
SHAREPOINT BESIDES THE VERY
MOST RECENT BIG PARK COMPLAINT
THAT'S COME IN THE FIRST ONE
AND THEN THE OTHER ONES THE ONE
THAT WE SPOKE ABOUT EARLIER
REFERENCED THE PARKING BILLS
ARE ABOUT TO BE PUT IN THERE AS
SOON AS WE CAN GET OUR UPDATED
POLICY FINALIZED ON THAT AND
THEN TO DATE THE DEPARTMENT
EXTERNALLY HAS RECEIVED ONE
CITIZEN COMPLAINT AND THAT I
THINK I'D PUT THAT THIS MORNING
OR YESTERDAY MORNING SO SO WE
PRINTED THIS OUT LIKE YESTERDAY
IT WOULD SHOW WHAT THE
DEPARTMENT'S CONCLUSION WAS
THAT IS IN SHAREPOINT AS WELL.
I'M NOT SURE WHAT DOCUMENT
YOU'RE LOOKING AT THERE AS FAR
AS THIS IS ONLY A BOX.
OK, BUT THE ONES FROM THE PD
ARE BEING UPLOADED AS WELL IN A
TIMELY MANNER THIS TIME NOW
THAT WE HAVE OUR PROCESS KIND
OF SQUARED AWAY JUST TO KEEP
YOU INFORMED ON THAT.
BUT BUT THE ELEVEN PARKING ONES
ARE ARE ABOUT TO BE PUT IN
THERE AS WELL SO YOU SHOULD
HAVE UPDATED INFORMATION BY AT
LEAST I WOULD SAY THE NEXT
MEETING HOPEFULLY.
>> THANK YOU SO BUT THIS
DOESN'T SAY ANYTHING ABOUT WHAT
THE IS THERE A SPACE FOR WHAT
THE DEPARTMENT SAID IT MEANS A
SPACE FOR OUR RECOMMENDATION IS
THERE A SPACE FOR WHAT THE
DEPARTMENT FOR FOR THE UPDATES?
I THINK THERE IS BECAUSE IF YOU
LOOK AT WHAT HP SINCE IT IS
COMPREHENSIVE BUT IT CAN BE
PRINTED OUT LIKE THIS.
IT CAN BE YES.
YES.
IT'S AN EXCEL QUESTION.
CAN YOU MAYBE ANSWER TO AS FAR
AS I KNOW WE'VE TALKED ABOUT
THE PROCESS FOR WHEN A PERSON
FILE A COMPLAINT AND THE REASON
I'M ASKING BECAUSE I KNOW
SOMEONE WHO FILED ON THE LAST
MONTH OR SO IS NOT LISTED HERE
BUT THEY WERE UNDER THE
IMPRESSION THAT THEY FILE IT
BOTH THAT THEY FILED IT WITH
THE POLICE DEPARTMENT AND WITH
US IS THAT IT WOULD HAVE BEEN A
CONFUSION LIKE HOW DO YOU
BECAUSE THEY FOR SURE FILED A
COMPLAINT AND I SAID DID YOU
THE POLICE DEPARTMENT AND WHO
DID YOU FOLLOW?
AND THEY SAY THEY FOUND IT WAS
BOTH BECAUSE IT WAS AN ISSUE
OF WRONG IDENTITY AND I DIDN'T
SEE THAT ON HERE.
SO I'M LIKE OH WELL WHO DID YOU
FILE?
SO I WAS JUST TRYING TO FIGURE
OUT THE PROCESS OF SOMEONE GOES
TO THE POLICE DEPARTMENT.
DO THEY THINK THAT THEIR FILES
MADE WITH BOTH IG PARK IN THE
POLICE DEPARTMENT OR THEY HAVE
TO GO THROUGH THEM AND
THEY
SPLIT UP OR SO FOR THAT
INCIDENT THAT TWENTY TWENTY FOR
THIS REPORT IS INCOMPLETE.
I DID NOT TO WORK BECAUSE WHEN
HAD THAT THE LAST MEETING I
SAID I WOULD NOT BE ENCODING IT
ON THIS ONE BECAUSE WE'RE JUST
GOING TO START WITH THE
COMPLAINTS OF TWENTY TWENTY
FIVE WHEN A PERSON'S AND IF
THEY AREN'T SUBMITTING SO THEY
WOULD HAVE TO A COMPLAINT
THROUGH A PARTY AND GET THE PC
AND THEN WE AH GOTCHA CHIEF.
YES.
THANK YOU FOR DOING THAT.
I JUST WANTED TO MAKE SURE IT
IS SOME CLARITY WITH RESPECT TO
PARKING BECAUSE OBVIOUSLY WE
GOT THE ELEVEN COMPLAINTS AND
THEY'VE BEEN COMING HERE SO
WE'RE GOING TO TALK ABOUT THE
TECHNICAL TECHNICALITY SO THAT
YOU CLEARLY UNDERSTAND IT.
BUT THE REALITY IS IS WE'VE
BEEN MOVING AROUND THIS AREA IS
THAT WE DO NOT HAVE ENOUGH
PARKING DOWN THERE FOR THE
POLICE OFFICERS TO PARK THE
CARS.
>> CAN YOU CHIEF?
I DON'T KNOW IF EVERYBODY KNOWS
WHAT THE ISSUE IS AND WHAT THE
COMPLAINTS HAVE BEEN.
SO MAYBE IF YOU JUST BACK UP A
LITTLE BIT AND GIVE US A LITTLE
BACKGROUND, OK, SURE.
YEAH, I CAN SPEAK ON THAT.
SO WE HAVE OUR PARK RECEIVED
ELEVEN I BELIEVE TODAY
COMPLAINTS REFERENCE PARKING
OF PATROL VEHICLES, OTHER CITY
VEHICLES OUTSIDE HERE IN THE
STREET AND THEN ON AND STREET.
BY THE WAY, THE POLICY IS
WRITTEN CURRENTLY SPEAKS TO
MARKED PATROL CARS.
SO I WANT TO SAY AT LEAST HALF
OF THE COMPLAINTS THAT HAVE
COME IN ARE SEEM TO BE
REFERENCE SOME OF THE PARKING
VEHICLES THE CSO IS THE
COMMUNITY SERVICE OFFICERS.
SO ONE OF THE THINGS THAT WE'RE
LOOKING AT WITH THIS REVAMPING
OF THE POLICY IS TO CLARIFY THE
CITY VEHICLES WHILE THE
PREFERRED SPACES ARE IN THE
POLICE GARAGE AND LARKHAM
GARAGE FOR DETECTIVE BUREAU
CARS OBVIOUSLY THERE'S NOT
ENOUGH SPACES IN THERE FOR OUR
FLEET WHEN WE HAVE BOTH POLICE
POLICE CARS AND THE CSO CARS
AND SO CURRENTLY IT SAYS THEY
CAN PARK IN LEGAL SPACES AND
STREET AND ON FIFTH BUT IT ONLY
TALKS ABOUT MARK PATROL CARS.
SOME OF OUR FLEET ARE SEMI
MARKED TRAFFIC UNIT CARS AND
THEN AGAIN THE OTHER HALF
OF THE COMPLAINTS THAT HAVE
COME IN OUR REFERENCE THE
PARKING PEOPLE AS WELL.
SO THAT'S SOMETHING THAT WRE
GOING TO LOOK AT.
I THINK THERE'S PROBABLY TWO OR
THREE POLICIES THAT WE HAVE
WE'VE IDENTIFIED INTERNALLY
THAT KIND OF SAY DIFFERENT
THINGS EVEN THOUGH THEY SEEM TO
BE TALKING ABOUT THE SAME
THING.
SO LIEUTENANT PETRILLA AND I
HAVE SPENT THE LAST FEW WEEKS
SINCE THOSE HAVE COME IN KIND
OF PULLING ALL OF THOSE TRYING
TO REVAMP THEM, MAKE IT NEATER,
MAKE IT BETTER TO UNDERSTAND
AND COVER ALL THE DIFFERENT
CITY VEHICLES THAT THE POLICE
DEPARTMENT HAS IN ITS FLEET.
SO THANK YOU SO YOU THANK YOU.
SO YOU'RE WORKING ON POLICIES
AND WE HAVE HAD A LOT
OF COMPLAINTS COMING ABOUT THE
OK SO EVERYBODY THANK YOU SO
MUCH.
EVERYBODY IS GOING TO LOOK AT
THIS DECIDED THIS IS ENOUGH
WHAT ELSE YOU WANT IN TERMS
OF A MONTHLY REPORT TO THE
COMMISSIONERS AND WE'LL TALK
ABOUT THAT AND PUT IT ON OUR
OUR NEXT AGENDA.
I HAVE A QUESTION PLEASE AND
THAT'S ON TWO OF THE COMPLAINTS
AND IT SAYS THAT THE
COMPLAINANT REQUESTED THAT THE
COMPLAINT BE CLOSED.
DO WE CAN WE HAVE ANY
INFORMATION AS TO WHY THE
COMPLAINANT CHOSE TO GO TO
ACTUALLY AS SOON AS THOSE
COMPLAINTS CAME IN, LIEUTENANT
PETRELLI AND I STARTED
INVESTIGATING THOSE AND WE
ACTUALLY COMPLETED OUR
INVESTIGATION ALONG WITH
PREEMPTIVELY HAVING THOSE
INCIDENT REPORTS THAT ARE
ATTACHED TO THAT BOTH THOSE
COMPLAINTS REDACTED THOSE HAVE
BEEN UPLOADED TO THE PORTAL SO
THOSE ARE ACCESSIBLE TO THE
COMMISSION AT ANY TIME IT WAS
AFTER THAT WHEN THE GENTLEMAN
DECIDED TO RESCIND THE
COMPLAINTS BUT FOR TRANSPARENCY
WELL, WE WANTED TO LET YOU GUYS
KNOW THAT WE HAD ALREADY
INVESTIGATED THESE FULLY AND
ALL THE INVESTIGATIVE MATERIAL
HAS BEEN UPLOADED THAT PORTAL.
SO AS FAR AS THE REASON WHY I
CAN'T SPEAK ON THAT NECESSARILY
THAT WAS PERSONAL DECISION THAT
THE COMPLAINANT MADE.
BUT FROM OUR END THE POLICE
DEPARTMENT INVESTIGATED THOSE
COMPLAINTS AND THAT INFORMATION
IS ON THE PORTAL.
THANK YOU.
ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU FOR ANYTHING ELSE
WITH REGARD TO THE INFORMATION
MANAGER'S QUESTIONS ABOUT THE
INFORMATION MANAGEMENT IF NOT
COUNCIL UPDATE.
SO COUNSEL FOR SOME HARASSMENT
.
>> SO A COUPLE OF THINGS.
THE FIRST THING IS THE NACOLE
ANNUAL CONFERENCES IN WILL BE
IN MINNEAPOLIS AT THE MARRIOTT
MINNEAPOLIS CITY CENTER AND
MINNEAPOLIS, MINNESOTA
OCTOBER TWENTY SIXTH THROUGH
THE THIRTIETH.
THANK YOU.
YES, SO LET'S SEE WHAT SO I'LL
SHARE THIS FIRST I PICKED UP
THIS BOOK FROM WORK OUT OF OUR
LIBRARY AND RECOMMENDED
READING.
IT'S CALLED PULLED OVER HOW
POLICE STOPS DEFINE RACE AND
CITIZENSHIP BY CHARLES EBR.
STEPHEN MAINARD MOODY AND
DONALD HATER MARCAL I WOULD
LIKE TO READ AN EXCERPT OFF THE
BACK PAGE AND YOU'LL HAVE TO
EXCUSE ME.
I DO NOT HAVE MY READERS AND
YOU SEE HOW SMALL SO BEAR WITH
ME.
NO FORM OF GOVERNMENT CONTROL
COMES CLOSE TO THE POLICE STEP
EACH YEAR 12 PERCENTAGE
OF DRIVERS IN THE UNITED STATES
ARE STOPPED BY THE POLICE AND
THE FIGURE ALMOST DOUBLES FOR
RACIAL MINORITIES.
PULLED OVER DOCUMENTS THESE
DISPARITIES AND DEFTLY TRACES
THE STRANGE HISTORY
OF INVESTIGATORY POLICE STEP
FROM ITS DISCREDITED BEGINNING
AS AGGRESSIVE PATROLLING TO ITS
CURRENT STATUS AS ACCEPTED
INSTITUTIONAL PRACTICE DRAWING
ON THE RICHEST STUDY OF POLICE
STOPS TO DATE, THE AUTHORS SHOW
THAT WHO IS STOPPED AND HOW
THEY ARE TREATED UNDERMINED
TRUST IN THE POLICE AND CONVEY
POWERFUL MESSAGES ABOUT
CITIZENSHIP AND RACIAL
DISPARITY IN THE UNITED STATES
IN A COUNTRY THAT CELEBRATES
DEMOCRACY AND RACIAL EQUALITY
PULLED OVER SHOWS HOW
INVESTIGATORY STEPS UNDERMINE
RACIAL EQUALITY AND DEMOCRATIC
VALUES AND OFFERS PRACTICAL
RECOMMENDATIONS ON HOW REFORMS
CAN PROTECT THE RIGHTS
OF CITIZENS AND STILL
EFFECTIVELY COMBAT CRIME.
SO I'M JUST ABOUT ONE CHAPTER
IN ITS UP SO I JUST WANTED TO
RECOMMEND.
THE OTHER THING IS I SPOKE WITH
BOTH CHIEF ANDERSON AND OUR
ASSISTANT CITY ATTORNEY JAN
DYNARSKI AND THE THREE OF US
WILL BE MEETING SOON.
WE MET LIKE I SHARED AT A
MEETING PREVIOUSLY THAT WE HAD
A REALLY GOOD MEETING
DISCUSSING THE DRIVING EQUALITY
ORDINANCE AND SOME THINGS THAT
THEY HAD AND I GUESS I COULD
SAY UNCOVERED DATA A LITTLE BIT
OF DATA AND WILL BE CIRCLING
BACK AND DISCUSSING IT AGAIN.
I WILL SHARE THAT AND I AND I
MAY MISSED WHAT CHIEF SAID
ABOUT HIS POLICY.
BUT AS WE HEAD INTO THE TWO
YEAR ANNIVERSARY WHEN THEY
INTRODUCED THE URBAN EQUALITY
ORDINANCE BACK A COUPLE
OF YEARS AGO, I HAD ALWAYS SAID
THAT THIS WAS A STARTING POINT
AND THAT IT COULD BE AMENDED IN
THE FUTURE.
SO YOU KNOW, IT WILL BE LOOKING
INTO THAT AND AND CONSIDERING
SOME AMENDMENTS OR I GUESS THE
CHIEF AND I WILL DISCUSS HOW I
MEAN HE'S WORKING ON POLICY BUT
I GUESS I HAVE SOME THOUGHTS
ABOUT YOU KNOW, SOME MORE SOME
AMENDMENTS.
>> I'LL JUST SAY IT THAT WAY.
SO THAT'S THAT'S THAT AND WE
SHOULD BE MEETING CENTER
REQUESTS SO HOPEFULLY WE'LL BE
MEETING SOON.
I ALSO WANTED TO SHARE THAT THE
ACLU OF MICHIGAN DID REACH OUT
TO ME.
WE'VE HAD SOME DISCUSSIONS
ABOUT SOME THINGS THAT I'M
THINKING ABOUT WORKING ON AS
PERTAINS TO THE INDIVIDUAL
CIVIL LIBERTIES AND POLICING.
SO JUST STAY TUNED.
I YOU KNOW, AS WE AS I
EMPHASIZED INFANCY STAGE
OF LOOKING AT SOMETHING ELSE, I
WILL BRING IT TO YOU ALL AND WE
CAN, YOU KNOW, SHARE WITH YOU
WHAT I'M WORKING ON AND YOU
KNOW, WE CAN DISCUSS IF YOU
GUYS WANT TO GET INVOLVED OR
WHAT YOU THINK ABOUT IT BUT
JUST KIND OF WANTED TO SHARE
THAT THOSE CONVERSATIONS WITH
MYSELF AND THE ACLU ARE TAKING
PLACE.
>> THANK YOU SO MUCH.
AND AS YOU KNOW, FULLY
SUPPORTED YOU ON THE DRIVE AND
THE EQUALITY ORDINANCE PASSAGE
AND WE ARE, YOU KNOW, HAPPY TO
TO WORK WITH YOU AS AS NEEDED.
YOU KNOW, THE WHOLE ISSUE
OF CIVIL LIBERTIES.
I MEAN I I AM APPALLED THAT AND
NOW WELL, I GET ARRESTED.
I DON'T KNOW I'M APPALLED THAT
THE GOVERNMENT CAN PUT TWO
HUNDRED SIXTY PEOPLE ON THREE
PLANES AND FLY THEM OUT OF THIS
COUNTRY AND JAIL THEM IN MEXICO
OR SOMEONE SOMEPLACE EL
SALVADOR SOMEPLACE THEY HAVEN'T
COME FROM WITHOUT ANY DUE
PROCESS WHATSOEVER.
WE SHOULD ALL BE AFRAID AND AND
AFRAID ENOUGH TO DO SOMETHING
IF WE'RE CALLED UPON TO DO
SOMETHING OR SAY SOMETHING.
I MEAN THIS ISN'T THIS ISN'T
WHAT AMERICA SHOULD BE LIKE.
SO ALL RIGHT.
>> SO WE KNOW NOW WHEN THE
WENIG
PAC IS GOING TO BE PUT ON
YOUR CALENDARS MINNEAPOLIS
ISN'T THAT FAR THE TWENTY SIXTH
THROUGH THE 30TH.
NACOLE WHAT ESSENE EPOP OK,
WE'RE WE'RE HERE RIGHT?
NACOLE OCTOBER 26 THROUGH THE
30TH AS MANY OF US AS CAN GO
WOULD BE GREAT.
ALL RIGHT.
IS THERE ANYTHING ELSE THAT WE
NEED TO TALK ABOUT TODAY?
>> NO FURTHER BUSINESS AND I'M
ASSUMING WE DON'T HAVE ANYBODY
WHO'S CALLED IN WHO WANTS TO
TALK TO NOBODY IN THE AUDIENCE
WANTS TO MAKE ANY STATEMENTS OR
QUESTIONS FOR AIPA IN THAT CASE
I WILL ASK FOR A MOTION TO
ADJOURN MOTION.
THANK YOU.
ANY SECOND ANY DISCUSSION
ANYBODY DOESN'T WANT TO ADJOURN
ALL IN FAVOR.
ALL RIGHT.
WE ARE ADJOURNED.
THANK YOU SO MUCH,
COMMISSIONERS'